SUNGURA kingpin Alick Macheso appears to have found his mojo with the release of his latest album Dzinosvitsa Kure at a fully-packed Aquatic Complex in the dormitory town of Chitungwiza. BY WINSTONE ANTONIO The Madhawu hitmaker proved he is the king of sungura at a colourful and emotional event that saw him twice shedding tears in the midst of his performance. Macheso shed tears when his former guitarist Lucky Mumiriki, who suffered a mild stroke in 2011, joined him on stage. Mumiriki was handed a guitar and managed to put it around his neck as if to strum it, but due to his condition, he could not and handed it back to the Charakupa hitmaker, who could not hold back his tears. Macheso wept again after sungura legend Tedious Matsito’s son, Tedious Junior, showcased his vocal prowess, as he performed his ailing father’s songs, with Orchestra Mberikwazvo backing him. The sungura maestro had to temporarily leave the stage. Macheso offered to assist Tedious Junior after he was “anointed” by his father to take over the reins of Ngwenya Brothers by recording his debut album at Alema Studios in Chitungwiza. “This is Tedious Matsito’s son. You now him. He [Tedious Snr] is not feeling well, so the son is learning the ropes and we are assisting him and we are going to help him to record, as I also got help from other people,” he said. Macheso performed new songs from the latest album, as well as other songs from his yesteryear hits. He also paid tribute to departed music icons such as Simon Chimbetu, Leonard Dembo, Cephas Mashakada, System Tazvida and Tongai Moyo, as he played their renditions much to the delight of crowd. The launch was a triple celebration as it coincided with Macheso’s 50th birthday celebrations and Orchestra Mberikwazvo’s 20th anniversary. The musician was also joined on stage by other artistes including Jah Prayzah, Leonard Zhakata, Sniper Storm and Faheem Somanje. Dzinosvitsa Kure, which is Macheso’s 11th offering, was recorded at Alema Studios. At the launch Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation minister Kazembe Kazembe was booed by merrymakers as he delivered his keynote address. The restive crowd booed Kazembe when he chanted the slogan “Chiutsi Utsi” along with a clenched fist. Kazembe’s political chant attracted jeers from the crowd, which responded by chanting MDC-T slogans and waving the open palm symbol. “Macheso power, I thank you people, I am cheerful, today I don’t want to talk much, if I look at you we want to merry make, no speeches today. It’s happiness only today, but allow me to thank Baba Shero (Macheso). Baba Shero you have done our country proud, you have seen the ambassador has expressed thanks, I thank you Baba Shero,” he said before making the chant. Kazembe was speaking soon after Korean ambassador Cho Jaichel. The minister was forced to cut short his speech as some fans hurled invectives at him, while others called out the name of the MDC-T and MDC Alliance presidential candidate Nelson Chamisa. The revellers accused Kazembe of trying to turn the album launch  into a Zanu PF campaign rally. Jaichel applauded Macheso for the album launch, describing him as a talented artiste whose music has also charmed him to become his fan.