BULAWAYO top Imbube outfits — Black Umfolosi and Imbizo Performing Arts will tomorrow night stage their first-ever joint performance, which promises fireworks at the Bulawayo Theatre. BY SINDISO DUBE Imbube is a form of traditional acapella, which was made popular in South Africa by Ladysmith Black Mambazo and locally by outfits such as Amabhubesi and Black Umfolosi. Black Umfolosi’s co-founder and artistic director Sotsha Moyo told Southern Eye Life &Style that the show was meant to celebrate music and forge collaborations within the arts industry. “Everything is set for the first of its kind show in our very own city. We are eager to share the stage with our brothers (Imbizo), who are more like our young brothers as we came first before them, but their work complements and inspires ours too,” he said. “We hope to see more groups especially upcoming ones collaborating in songs and shows, there is power in a united force than in a divided industry. We urge all music lovers to come in their numbers and enjoy the rich cultural sounds,” A member of Imbizo, Ozias Ncube said this show signals the beginning of a strong relationship with Black Umfolosi.
“This will be one of our major shows. It marks our first ever joint show with Black Umfolosi and this signals the beginning of a relationship that we wish to see grow from strength to strength,” he said. The show which will start at 6pm will feature other Bulawayo-based gospel acts. Black Umfolosi recorded their first album titled Unity with the assistance of veteran producer Bothwell Nyamhondera. The album carried the all-time classic Unity which they performed live at the 1989 Independence Day celebrations. Black Umfolosi are one of the many local groups that have gone on tours around the world. They were recently presented with the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Bulawayo Arts Awards held in Bulawayo last week. The globe-trotting ensemble Imbizo, originally from Filabusi, comprises of former of Dekezi Secondary School students and was formed in 1991.