ORGANISERS of the Zimbabwean Blog Awards, Tribe Influencers, have introduced Zimbabwean Social Media awards set to honour individuals and brands that are producing innovative content and excelling at utilising social media in September in Harare. BY TAFADZWA KACHIKO Tribe Influencers business director Kudzanayi Thodhlana told NewsDay Life & Style that the awards were meant to celebrate the excellent use of social media by local people and companies. “The purpose of the awards is to recognise and celebrate our biggest and most popular social media influencers. Being social media awards, we are going to host it on the social media and utilise it to announce the winners, thereby, showcasing its value and impact,” he said. “Judges will look for quality and originality of content, innovative use of social media, engagement marketing and analytics. The panel of five judges will come up with five nominees per category after a careful assessment and winners will be determined by voters.” Thodhlana said there will be 25 categories and participants must have social media platforms that attracted more than 5 000 followers and their presence on these platforms should be no less than six months. “The nomination process is underway and it will close on July 2. We have 25 categories across all major social media platforms and they are open to any individual or brand. Thus, these can nominate themselves or get nominated via our website and they can be nominated in several categories,” he said. “Prizes for winners will be announced soon and we are going to have a winners’ dinner to celebrate their success in September. This will be strictly for winners and their guests, partners, sponsors and media.” The categories are Top Facebook Live Influencer, Instagrammer of the Year, Twimbo of the Year, Youtuber of the Year, Snpachatter of the Year, Facebooker of the Year, Best Facebook Group, Best WhatsApp Group, Celebrity Influencer of the Year, Most Popular On-Air influencer, Best Content Creator, Best Travel Influencer, Best Entertainer Influencer, Best Fashion and Style Influencer, Best Make Up Artist, Best Influential Stylist, Best Beauty and Hair Influencer, Funniest Influencer, Best Sports Influencer, Best e-Commerce Vendor, Best YouTube Channel, Outspoken Social Issues Influencer, Social Media Campaign of the Year, People’s Choice: Social Media Queen and People’s Choice: Social Media King.