NGEZI PLATINUM……….(3)5
SHABANIE MINE……. …(0)1 MARAUDING Ngezi Platinum Stars yesterday mercilessly hammered Shabanie Mine in a Castle Lager Premier League match played at Baobab Stadium, as they closed the gap between themselves and FC Platinum at the top of the log to just a point. BY GARISH PHIRI The home side meant business from the onset and it was not a surprise when they surged ahead as early as the eighth minute when James Nguluve capitalised on some clumsy defending by Shabanie Mine’s defence to slot home. Master Chaodza doubled the host’s lead two minutes later when again Shabanie Mine’s defence were caught napping as he easily tapped the ball into an empty net following a perfect cross from Nguluve. On the 28th  minute, Donald Teguru managed to add his name on the scoresheet following a counter attack with only the keeper to beat. Shabanie showed no signs of life in the first half as they allowed Ngezi to tear them apart. The platinum miners were not done yet as on the 54th minute Nguluve lashed his second of the day. They piled more woes on the relegation-threatened team as Tichaona Mabvura scored a powerful header following a brilliant set-up by Teguru on the 73rd minute. Shabanie got a consolation goal through a penalty kick after Frank Makarati’s gauche challenge in the box. Nigel Papias took responsibility and banged it in just nine minutes from time. Ngezi coach Tonderai Ndiraya was happy with both the performance and result, especially as they were coming from a draw. “We want to make sure we collect as many points as possible. The point we picked against Chicken Inn has now proved to be a vital point, especially looking that FC Platinum has lost. The boys did very well today, if they keep that kind of momentum, I think we can cross the line,” he said. Shabanie coach Alexio Sigion was disappointed with his team’s performance. “It’s demotivating when you keep on losing games. Of course, as a coach, you need to keep on motivating the youngsters, but they are not responding. It’s frustrating a lot, but there is nothing we can do. We just need to try and see where we end at the end of the season,” he said.