Chicken Inn get a chance to make a case of their title ambitions, when they clash with second-placed Ngezi Platinum Stars at the weekend. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA The former champions are seven points behind the Ngezi-based platinum miners and can cut that gap if they manage a positive result as they host Tonderai Ndiraya’s side at Luveve Stadium on Saturday. They are nine points behind leaders FC Platinum, who have a tricky tie against Chapungu at Mandava Stadium on the same day. For a while, it looked like the title race had been reduced to a two-team affair as FC Platinum and Ngezi pulled away from the rest of the teams and Chicken Inn coach Joey Antipas at some point threw in the towel. However, Ngezi encountered an astonishing loss of form that saw them suffer four straight defeats, while FC Platinum started the second half of the season on a bad note, collecting two points from the first three matches upon resumption. This opened up the window for Chicken Inn, who could strengthen their case on Saturday by beating Ngezi. They are currently enjoying the best form, having dropped just two points in the last five matches. The Gamecocks destroyed Shabanie Mine 3-0 at the weekend to maintain pressure on the leading pack. They are now on 40 points, seven behind and nine adrift of FC Platinum. Dynamos and Highlanders finally return to action after their match was cancelled last week. DeMbare, who are just three points above the relegation zone, take on ZPC Kariba at Rufaro on Sunday, while Highlanders take on Nichrut at Ascot on Saturday. Lloyd Mutasa’s side has not won in the second half of the season and faces a tough ZPC Kariba side who have only one defeat in their last five matches. Dynamos will be looking to unleash some of their latest acquisitions that include midfielder Brett Amidu, whose is making a return from a stint with FC Platinum. They are still sweating, however, on the availability of striker Kingston Nkatha, whose paperwork has not yet been regularised so that he features for his new team. Fixtures Saturday:  Chicken Inn v Ngezi Platinum(Luveve),  Nichrut v Highlanders (Ascot),  Herentals v Caps United (Rufaro),  FC Platinum v Chapungu (Mandava), Black Rhinos v Bulawayo City (NSS) Sunday:  Mutare City v Shabanie Mine (Vengere), Bulawayo City v Harare City (Luveve), Dynamos v ZPC Kariba (Rufaro),  Triangle v Yadah (Gibbo)