AFTER causing one of the major upsets of the season by beating Ngezi Platinum Stars last week, Mutare City coach Matsika Ndega is also looking to wreck FC Platinum’s title ambitions when the two teams meet at the weekend. BY KENNETH NYANGANI City shocked Ngezi 1-0 at Vengere Stadium on Sunday, a result that hugely dented the latter’s chances of winning the championship this year. It was a damaging defeat for second-placed Ngezi, who could have narrowed the gap with log leaders FC Platinum to just one point had they won the match. The Tonderai Ndiraya-coached side, who face Highlanders next, are now four points behind the leaders with 10 matches remaining in the season. The relegation-threatened City enhanced their chances of survival with the victory. But they travel to run-away leaders FC Platinum at Mandava Stadium on Saturday, and will be hoping to cause another major shock in the league. In an interview with NewsDay Sport yesterday, Ndega said, “We are going to fight as Mutare City Rovers and hope to get another good result. We are in the relegation zone and we should continue picking up points. We have been playing well in recent matches and if we could replicate the form that we have showed in the past weeks, we stand a very good chance.” City have picked seven points from a possible 15, with two wins, a draw and two losses in the last five matches. Victory at the weekend would see them moving nearer to the safe zone. However, they would be without skipper Kelvin Bingala and David Mangezi, who are on loan at the club from FC Platinum. Matsika said a clause in the loan agreement doesn’t allow the duo to feature against their parent club. It is the absence of Bingala, that would be felt the most by Matsika, as the midfielder has been the mainstay for the club this season, and has been the standout performer for them this season. “It’s very unfortunate that we are going to miss the services of our outstanding players Kelvin Bingala and David Mangezi. But we cant cry for them because that is the reason why we registered many players and we are optimistic that we have capable players who are able to fill in the void,” he added. Castle Lager Premier Soccer League week 25 fixtures Saturday: Bulawayo Chiefs v Black Rhinos (Luveve), FC Platinum v Mutare City (Mandava), Harare City v Herentals (Rufaro), Chapungu v Triangle United (Ascot), Yadah v Chicken Inn (National Sports Stadium), ZPC Kariba v Shabanie Mine (Nyamhunga), Bulawayo City v Dynamos (Barbourfields Stadium) Sunday: Caps United v Nichrut (National Sports Stadium), Highlanders v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Barbourfields)