Shabanie Mine gaffer Alexio Sigion says the Zvishavanebased club has a bright future, despite their current struggles on and off the field. BY TERRY MADYAUTA The club’s financial woes have crippled the club as it has gone on to lose some of its best players, with their chances of escaping the drop diminishing considerably. They currently sit in position 17 of the 18-team log, having won two matches this term. Their last win came over three months ago. They have a paltry 15 points on their tally, three points ahead of log anchors Mutare City and the relegation story seems inevitable. In the last four games, they picked a point against Dynamos, who are sandwiched by defeats at the hands of Triangle, Nichrut and Chicken Inn. But their youthful gaffer says his side will thrive under pressure of the relegation run-in. “In these moments, all clubs will be playing under pressure of achieving their end-of-season objectives and I hope my team will rise to the occasion so that we maintain our status in the top flight,” Sigion said. “This is a passionate team and it is something very positive if we play under pressure. The pressure is welcome because I realised we play better while under pressure.” Sigion said despite their predicament, they were determined to end their turbulent season on high. “It is important that we remain focused in all our games until the season ends, we might find ourselves surviving. “It has been a difficult period for us, we have put ourselves in this situation and we can only be our own saviours. “I wish we could find a sponsor because some of these underperformances are a result of financial instability at the club,” he added. At the weekend, the Chinda Boys travel to Mutare for a date with Mutare City in a battle of strugglers, which could change the complexion of the standings at the bottom. On the other hand, Bulawayo City has also been turned into a punch bag and are tied with Shabanie on 15 points, although with a superior goal difference. Following a defeat to FC Platinum, the Bulawayo side’s hopes of surviving the chop remain grim.