THE annual Lake Harvest Kariba Challenge, which incorporates a half-marathon and a 10km race, as well as a number of fun events, takes place in Kariba this weekend. BY SPORTS REPORTER The event, which is managed by the Harare Round Table Number One, an association of men aged 18 to 25, is held every year over the Heroes Holiday weekend to raise funds for several charities. Among the event’s sponsors is NMB Bank. The half-marathon event is a 21,1km run. There is a 10km race for those who feel the half marathon is a bit much for them. There is also a short run for children up to the age of 12. The running events take place on Sunday. On Saturday, the focus is on children, with a kids fishing tournament at the Kariba Bream Farm in Chawara, and other fun events, including children’s movies. NMB Bank marketing manager Lindiwe Thebethebe said the financial institution was happy to be among the sponsors of this event, which in the past has attracted some top runners from clubs in South Africa and Zimbabwe, as well as local and foreign visitors to Kariba and families and friends of those participating in the challenge. Past participants in the half-marathon have included runners who have been among the top in the South African Comrades Marathon and Two Oceans Marathon, as well as local runners who have excelled in local and international runs. Some impressive times have been achieved in the previous Kariba Challenge events. “The event promises to be an exciting and fun-filled event for families as well as for the runners and their supporters,” Thebethebe said. “Not only is running a good way to stay healthy, the Kariba Challenge benefits a number of worthy charities,” she added. The Kariba Animal Welfare Trust, which treats injured or distressed wild animals and has joined the Zimbabwe National Parks and Wildlife Management Authority in anti-snare patrols, is among the charities set to benefit from the Kariba Challenge. Another beneficiary is the Tony Waite Organisation, which assists orphans and vulnerable children. The Greendale Senior Citizens Trust will also benefit from funds raised by the challenge.