DYNAMOS players and officials had to be escorted by police out of Rufaro Stadium yesterday as a section of the team’s supporters threatened to turn violent on them after the Harare giants threw away a three-goal lead to draw against a fighting Shabanie Mine. BY HENRY MHARA Dynamos……….(1)3
Shabanie Mine.. .(0)3
Irate fans formed a barricade at the main entrance into the stadium, calling for the technical team, the club executive and a few players including substitute Valentine Ndaba, to leave the club, following the “embarrassing” result. Striker Christian Ntouba, who did not feature in the match in protest over unpaid fees by the club, was showered with a few notes and coins in the melee, with the supporters showing a clear support for the embattled Cameroonian. The Dynamos team bus had to be escorted out of the stadium by the police, and thankfully, the tense situation, did not turn violent. The supporters were angry at the way their team had crumbled like a deck of cards in the last 22 minutes of the match, having built what appeared like an unassailable lead. Exciting young winger Valentine Kadonzvo put the Harare giants in front on the half hour mark, after he was picked unmarked inside the box by a Blessing Moyo cross. Kudzanai Dhemere, another promising Dynamos youngster, doubled the advantage after 54 minutes, sweeping the ball into the nets from a quality square pass by Quality Kangadze. The later appeared to have wrapped up the match when he blasted the ball into the top right corner from a rebound, after his initial shot had been blocked by goalkeeper Petros Moyo. The home side had created the better chances, before and after scoring their three goals.
Shabanie Mine, though, had other ideas. Former Dynamos midfielder, Carlos Rusere hit the post for Shabaniebefore the Zvishavane side pulled one back through double scorer, David Temwanjira. Dynamos, who were yesterday under assistant coach, Biggie Zuze as coach, Lloyd Mutasa was away with the national team in Zambia, had struggled to deal with set pieces and long balls into their box. The manner in which they conceded a first goal was not surprising. A corner kick was floated into the box, and with the players in blue shirts all ball watching and Temwanjira bundled the ball home. Goalkeeper, Blessing Mwandimutsira could have done better to cut the cross. Substitute Richard Kawondera, a Dynamos reject, gave Shabanie Mine even more hope when he fired past Mwandimutsira on 80 minutes after the Dynamos defence had again failed to deal with a second ball following a free-kick. A minute later, the Takesure Chiragwi-coached side completed a thrilling comeback, when Temwanjira showed great composure to place the ball into the nets after getting to an end of a flick-on from a long ball from deep. They could have nicked all the three points right at the death, Joe Nyabinde failing to beat Mwandimutsira from a one on one situation.
Zuze said he will take the blame for his side’s shock capitulation, with his second half substitutions, particularly the introduction of the ineffective Ndaba, causing displeasure among supporters. Zuze was satisfied with the team’s attackers, who missed Ntouba and captain Ocean Mushure, and lamented the defenders for letting in the goals. He reckoned it was a better performance overall, from the way they played in their season opener where they lost to Chicken Inn. But a one point return from a possible six, is a big worry for the former Monomotapa coach. Chiragwi congratulated his boys for an ‘unbelievable’ fighting spirit to earn a point from the jaws of defeat, a result that would take his side’s points tally to four in two matches. Teams Dynamos: B Mwandimutsira, B Moyo, R Matova, J Tigere, M Machazane, J Marufu, K Dhemere (O Mwerahari, 84′), C Kapupurika, R Manuvire, V Kadonzvo (V Ndaba, 60′), Q Kangadze (K Kumwala, 83′) Shabanie Mine: P Moyo, L Manyande (R Kawonder, 68′), A Maliselo, N Mpofu, J Nyabinde, T Chigede, T Ajana, M Makuwe (C Rusere, 53′), T Mupumha, D Temwanjira, A Kambanje (K Dhlamini, 74′)