Believers’ victory and wellbeing lie in the knowledge of what God has granted us in the accomplished works of Jesus Christ. By Erasmus Makarimayi Our peace is that the Gospel of Christ is there to proclaim a done deal. As a minister or preacher, my commission derives its mandate from the certainty of the good news. Believers don’t receive a possibility of victory but a spiritual reality of victory. It’s realised or experienced by and through knowledge. The grace of God provides us a complete package that we acknowledge and partake of graciously with thanksgiving. The glad tidings of our Lord Jesus Christ hands to us this wholesome dish by grace through faith. We need the peace, confidence, conviction and assurance in our inner being, as we pursue our individual dreams. As we face pressure and resistance, there’s always a satanic whisper to instil fear and doubt in us so that we abandon our God ordained destinies. The devil doesn’t want us to see the end of it because it will give glory to God. The grace of God is the tested and tried and approved brand. In dispatching its carriers, Jesus instils the requisite confidence. He assured and assures in Matthew 28:20: “Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen.” Nowhere along this path are we on our own as long as we’re single-minded in bringing multitudes to His fold.
He says always. Those who receive and accept the gospel and confess the Lordship of Jesus Christ are adopted into His family. The Godhead — that is the — God the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, comes and dwells in them. John 14:16, 23 (Amplified) instruct: “And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another comforter (counsellor, helper, intercessor, advocate, strengthener, and standby), that He may remain with you forever. “Jesus answered, if a person [really] loves me, he will keep my word [obey my teaching]; and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home (abode, special dwelling place) with him.” Accepting the gospel releases the presence of God. This presence is continuous and uninterrupted. The presence isn’t based on our feelings but on God’s sincerity and faithfulness. Christ is in the believers and believers are in Christ. We’re inseparable. Jesus nails it in John 14:20: “At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you.” A believing archbishop and someone born again now are equally in Christ. Knowledge may differ, but the spiritual reality is settled. We may function differently according to spiritual gifts, but we’re all seated in heavens. Ephesians 2:6, Amplified, declares: “And He raised us up together with Him and made us sit down together [giving us joint seating with Him] in the heavenly sphere [by virtue of our being] in Christ Jesus (the messiah, the anointed one).” Without enough knowledge, some may feel far away. God has always wanted to bring us to an unbreakable bond and Jesus Christ did that. This has been accomplished by grace and not works. We didn’t deserve it, earn it, merit it or attain it. It was because of God’s goodness, love, mercy, kindness and grace. Jesus Christ brought us into the presence of God to stay and remain therein to fellowship with God the Father and worship and praise Him. Hebrews 13:5 comforts us: “Let your conversation be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.” God will not leave you nor abandon you. He’s with you and in you. Whatever you’re pursuing, please do it fully aware that God is in you. He’s not about to abandon you. The incarnation was for the purpose of coming to us and reconciling us to Him. He made the move and we accepted it. Matthew 1:23 guides: “Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.” With a clear conscience, pursue your dreams and accomplish your goals. Isaiah 41:10 encourages: “Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.” The hand of the Lord is upon you. He told the Israelites in Deuteronomy 31:8: “And the Lord, he it is that doth go before thee; he will be with thee, he will not fail thee, neither forsake thee: fear not, neither be dismayed.” Please don’t feel condemned nor inferior. You may think you don’t measure up, but it’s not on you, but it’s by God’s grace. You will prosper and flourish. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. l All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated.
Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org
Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632