WARRIORS defender Costa Nhamoinesu (pictured) has been ruled out of the four nations tournament that kicks off in Zambia today, due to travel complications. by henry mhara Following their weekend match against Slavia Prague on Saturday, which ended in a 3-all draw, Nhamoinesu was expected to leave the Czech Republic yesterday and travel to Zambia via South Africa. However, he failed to secure a flight from South Africa to Lusaka upon which he would connect to Ndola. Nhamoinesu played the full 90 minutes of their derby against Slavia Prague. He has not played for the Warriors since the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations finals in Gabon last year, missing the only qualifier of the 2019 edition against Liberia due to an injury. The defender missed a large chunk of his team’s campaign due to the injury, but returned to reclaim his place in the run in.
Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambga assembled a squad infused with youth and experience and Nhamoinesu was expected to partner Kaizer Chief’s Teenage Hadebe. The rest of the squad was expected to have fully assembled yesterday evening with the European based contingent of Tino Kadewere, Silas Songani, Cliff Moyo, Adam Chicksen and Aleck Mudimu’s arrive in Ndola at 6pm. Nineteen players trained yesterday and among them was Club Brugge’s Marvelous Nakamba who linked up with the South African and locally based players on Monday night. Zimbabwe will take on Zambia tomorrow afternoon while South Africa clash with Angola today. Warriors squad Goalkeepers: Takabva Mawaya (ZPC Kariba), Edmore Sibanda (Witbank Spurs, SA), George Chigova (Polokwane City, SA) Defenders: Costa Nhamoinesu (AC Sparta Prague, Czech Republic), Praise Tonha (Caps United), Jimmy Dzingai (Yadah Stars), Teenage Hadebe (Kaizer Chiefs, SA), Devine Lunga (Chicken Inn), Adam Chicksen (Bradford City, England), Cliff Moyo (Halifax, England) Midfielders: Marvelous Nakamba (Club Brugge, Belgium), Talent Chawapiwa (Baroka, SA), Aleck Mudimu (CEFN Druids, Wales), Butholezwe Ncube (Amazulu, SA), Marshall Munetsi (Orlando Pirates, SA), Tinotenda Kadewere (Djurgardens IF, Sweden) Strikers: Evans Rusike (SuperSport United, SA), Ovidy Karuru (Amazulu, SA) Silas Songani (Sonderjyske, Denmark), Abbas Amidu (Entag El Harby, Egypt)