MIDFIELDER Butholezwe Ncube is delighted to be handed his first national team call-up and has promised to use the chance to impress the team’s technical team for future assignments. BY HENRY MHARA The South Africa-based player, who plays for Premiership side Amazulu, is one of the five players, who were called for the first time by Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambga in a 20-man squad, which will take part in a four-nation team tournament in Zambia this week. The competition, which also includes Angola, South Africa and the hosts, runs from March 22 to 25 in Ndola. Other new faces in the squad named by the veteran coach, who is trying to widen his player base, are British-born Zimbabweans Adam Chicksen and Alec Mudimu. Cliff Moyo, who went to England aged nine, is also part of the squad and so is Orlando Pirates midfielder Marshall Munetsi. Ncube (25), has been rewarded for his hard work for Usuthu and will join teammate Ovidy Karuru (29) into the Warriors squad. A former Tsholotsho midfielder, Ncube said of his call up: “It’s an honour for me to be called up to the national team to represent Zimbabwe. It has always been a wish for me to play for my country. I want to add my part as well in achieving something for my country.” He was part of the contingent from South Africa who flew into Zambia yesterday. Zifa confirmed that the first delegation of the team arrived in Ndola last night, while the Europe-based stars were expected to fly straight to Zambia today. “The first batch comprising the officials left early in the morning today (yesterday), and the five locally-based players left with the team manager (Wellington Mupandare) in the afternoon. They will meet with the South Africa-based players in Kenya before connecting to Zambia. All the foreign-based players will fly straight to Ndola,” Zifa communications manager Xolisani Gwesela said. Zimbabwe play Zambia on Thursday in the opening match, with the winner facing the victor of the match between South Africa and Angola in the final on March 25. Warriors squad Goalkeepers: Takabva Mawaya (ZPC Kariba), Edmore Sibanda (Witbank Spurs, SA), George Chigova (Polokwane City, SA) Defenders: Costa Nhamoinesu (AC Sparta Prague, Czech Republic), Praise Tonha (Caps United), Jimmy Dzingai (Yadah Stars), Teenage Hadebe (Kaizer Chiefs, SA), Devine Lunga (Chicken Inn), Adam Chicksen (Bradford City, England), Cliff Moyo (Halifax, England) Midfielders: Marvelous Nakamba (Club Brugge, Belgium), Talent Chawapiwa (Baroka, SA), Aleck Mudimu (CEFN Druids, Wales), Butholezwe Ncube (Amazulu, SA), Marshall Munetsi (Orlando Pirates, SA), Tinotenda Kadewere (Djurgardens IF, Sweden) Strikers: Evans Rusike (SuperSport United, SA), Ovidy Karuru (Amazulu, SA) Silas Songani (Sonderjyske, Denmark), Abbas Amidu (Entag El Harby, Egypt)