Government and various stakeholders will on March 21 officially launch the process of implementing the National Information Communication Technology (ICT) policy, which was crafted in 2015, an official has said. BY TINASHE KAIRIZA Zimbabwe first launched its National ICT Policy Framework in 2007, but the document was overtaken by developments in the fast-growing sector. In 2015, Zimbabwe developed a fresh ICT policy, which was meant to buttress efforts to grow its fragile economy. Regain 37 and Life Revival Foundation in partnership with government and various stakeholders will drive the initiative of implementing the ICT policy. Regain 37 chief executive, Tawanda Mushawedu, said the launch of the process to implement the National ICT policy would focus on attracting investment into the sector,
among other key objectives. He said the launch would also explore avenues of copying and adapting in light of the rapid changes sweeping through the ICTs sector. “The launch of the operationalisation and implementation process will outline the National ICT policy options and possible approaches that the Zimbabwe Smart Sustainable Cities Initiative will take to achieve the set objectives, while seeking public input on which way will best realise these goals. “It is imperative to emphasise that technology is not an end in itself but a tool to realise the constitutional vision of equality and the rights set out in it,” he said.
The launch will attract representatives from leading ICTs firms such as Huawei, Econet Wireless Zimbabwe, Udugu Hub and Mango. Harare Provincial Affairs minister Miriam Chikukwa is expected to attend. Mushawedu said enhancing the country’s ICT infrastructure would also lure investment and improve the ease of doing business in Zimbabwe. The initiative would also determine financial resources required to implement the National ICT policy. “We are also going to embark on a national consultative process to quantify how much Zimbabwe requires to implement and operationalise the various clusters outlined in the ICT policy. ‘‘We will also look at the gaps in terms of technology,” Mushawedu said. The national ICT policy outlines the need for the establishment of a national information and communication technology authority, national information and communication technology converged regulator and e-government, among other key priority areas.