DYNAMOS coach, Lloyd Mutasa is worried by his team’s sloppy defending and has demanded discipline from his charges, following a 1-2 defeat to lowly Mutare City in a friendly match at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Mutasa, who, like last season, is building a new look side as he bids for the championship this team, deployed a largely youthful squad in the first half and to their credit, they carved out good chances and raced into the lead on 21 minutes courtesy of a header by Valentine Kadonzvo. However, Takunda Sadiki deemed excess to requirements  by the Glamour Boys, troubled their defence and could have opened the scoring for his side on 12 minutes, but his effort crashed against the upright post. He, however, made amends after 36 minutes, beating Marvellous Mukumba before chipping the ball over goalkeeper, Tonderai Mateyaunga. In the second half, Mutasa introduced senior players, Obey Mwerahari, Raphael Manuvire and Ocean Mushure, but substitute, David Mangesi rounded up Jimmy Tigere before firing the ball past Mateyaunga. With Dynamos facing a tough trip to Bulawayo at the weekend for a date with bogey side, Chicken Inn in their opening match of the campaign, Mutasa has demanded discipline at the back. “You know it’s a signal that it is still work in progress, we have to work hard. The way we conceded the two goals; we need to strengthen our defence and we need to think about those areas. Its the basics. We are losing the ball unnecessarily, we are not good enough and we do not expect the level of our young stars to lose balls in the defensive area. So we need to go back to the drawing board, keep emphasising. “People know us as a team with a winning mentality, so we have to insist to the charges. We should not have excuses in our next encounter,” he said. Christian Ntouba Epoupa, who reportedly refused to train last week over outstanding signing-on fees, was not part of the team. When asked why the striker was not part of the squad, Mutasa said the Cameroonian was sorting out personal issues. The Dynamos gaffer also said they still have one more slot for a striker, who will be joining them this week. He believes with more game time, his charges can improve and challenge for the title. “It’s too early, but we know what these boys are capable of. What we just have to do is instil that element to them that they should up their game by giving their whole because you know results do not come on a plate. “Players can only get better if they keep playing, we cannot expect them to be better when they are not playing and I think in terms of our fitness level, it will be measured  by these coming games,” Mutasa said.