CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League newboys Bulawayo Chiefs have promised to give former champions Caps United a good run for their money when the two sides clash at Luveve Stadium tomorrow. BY FORTUNE MBELE Both sides played draws in their first matches of the season last week, with Chiefs surrendering a 2-0 lead to share the spoils with Yadah FC in Harare on Saturday at Rufaro Stadium, while Caps United played a goalless draw against Harare City at the National Sports Stadium. Bulawayo Chiefs are banking on their players Dylan Chivandire, Hamadzashe Moyo, Talent Mandizadza and Brighton Manhire being registered on time for the match by the PSL having travelled to Harare with only 14 players last week. Club technical analyst and fitness trainer, Thulani Sibanda yesterday said they were ready for the Green Machine.
He, however, said that if they cannot register the quartet in time for the match, it would present a big challenge. “We have players that have not been registered as yet. We only had 14 players in camp in Harare. Our plea to the PSL is to have those four players registered in time for the match and we will give a good account of ourselves against Caps United. I am not saying we are going to win but we will be resistant and we will make Caps United run. But if those four players are not registered it will be difficult,” Sibanda said. They only had two in-field players on the bench against Yadah. Moses Majika and Perfect Chikwende scored against Yadah at Rufaro and Chiefs also have Arthur Musiyiwa, who was crowned Southern Region Soccer League Star of the Year when they won Division One championship last year, Kundishora Chakanyuka and Shadreck Nyahwa in their ranks. Caps United coach, Lloyd Chitembwe was impressed by his charges in the game against Harare City, but said they lacked composure in the final third to get the goals. “I saw a lot of improvements in different areas. The dominance was there. What lacked was composure in the front of goal maybe it was because of anxiety,” Chitembwe said. The Green Machine have experienced players on their books that include, among others, defender and captain Stephen Makatuka, Justice Jangano, Simba Nhivi and Milton Ncube. They will be looking for better penetration from their strikers and Brian Muzondiwa, Nhivi and John Zhuwawu fall under the spotlight in this one.