TRIANGLE gaffer, Taurai Mangwiro yesterday said he was going to make some tough decisions after his side’s 2-0 defeat to Ngezi Platinum in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played at Gibbo Stadium yesterday. BY KENNETH NYANGANI   IN TRIANGLE
Triangle . . . . . (0)0
Ngezi . . . . . . .  (1)2 It was the second defeat in Triangle’s opening two matches having lost their season opener to Shabanie, and although it is too early in the campaign, there are already fears that the Sugar Sugar Boys will end up fighting relegation. Clive Augosto opened the scoring after 23 minutes before Xolisani Moyo put the final nail in the coffin in the 83rd minute against the home side who missed a second half penalty. Mangwiro was disappointed but is still hopeful of getting good results in their upcoming matches. ‘’It is a terrible start to the season after losing to Shabanie in our first match. We had a really bad first half and we were unlucky to concede just one goal,’’ he said.
‘’We regrouped in the second half and we had a good game but that penalty we missed gave them confidence. We really wanted to start the season on a good note but we are on the back-foot. I have been in football for a long time and l know what I have to do. We need to take some decisions.” His counterpart, Tonderai Ndiraya said was elated with the win but despite his side scoring the two goals, he was not happy with the conversion rate. ‘’It  was a sweet victory, especially away from home. We had a very good first half  in-terms of chances, we created many chances in the first half it could have been simply  four or five goals in the first half,’’ he said. ‘’We were not clinical enough in front of goal and that is worrying me a lot.” Ngezi Platinum started the match on high note, terrorising the home side’s defence. They could have scored as early as the seventh minute but the outstanding Augosto’s shot went wide with Triangle goalkeeper, Ronald Mudimu a beaten man. Augosto finally came right on the 23rd minute after beating Mudimu all systems out, sending the few traveling fans into a frenzy. Ngezi continued fluffing chances going into the second half and almost paid dearly when Triangle was awarded a penalty on the 73rd minute for a handball. Vice captain Kudzai Chigwida’s spot kick was saved by goalkeeper Bernard Donavan before Moyo put the game to rest with a late goal for Ngezi’s second win in two matches.