AND so, after 20 exciting matches of the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier 2018, we have our Super Sixes line-up. While Windies, Ireland and UAE have made it from Group A, Zimbabwe, Scotland and Afghanistan are the teams from Group B. Windies finished at the top of the table in Group A Windies finished at the top of the table in Group A The challenge The aim of all teams is to finish in the top two, thus ensuring qualification for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2019 in England and Wales. UAE and Scotland, by making it to this stage, have confirmed one-day international status for themselves for the next cycle. Nepal’s victory over Kong Kong gave Afghanistan a place in the Super Sixes Nepal’s victory over Kong Kong gave Afghanistan a place in the Super Sixes
The points factor The teams carry points from their wins over other members from the same group into the Super Sixes. So Windies, who were undefeated in their group, have the advantage of four points and are already leading the table. Zimbabwe and Scotland, neck and neck all through the group stage, played out a tie in their final match. They come into this stage with three points each.
That leaves the door slightly open for the likes of Afghanistan. Starting out as one of the tournament favourites, they’ve had a rough time, only fortuitously squeezing into the Super Sixes after being one of three teams with one win in Group B. They carry no points, and will have to win all their matches to give themselves a chance of finishing in the top two. Ireland have two points, and as the No.12 ranked ODI side, have the tricky proposition of facing sides ranked 10th, 11th and 15th.  But as we’ve seen before in this tournament, when the underdogs punch above their weight, anything can happen. UAE, also on zero, will be looking to spoil a few plans of the bigger teams. The league game between Zimbabwe and Scotland ended up in a tie The league game between Zimbabwe and Scotland ended up in a tie Teams Points; Windies 4, Zimbabwe 3, Scotland 3, Ireland 2, Afghanistan 0, UAE 0 Fixtures:
March 15: Afghanistan v Windies, Harare Sports Club, Scotland v UAE, Queens Sports Club, Bulawayo March 16: Zimbabwe v Ireland, Harare Sports Club March 18: Ireland v Scotland, Harare Sports Club March 19: Windies v Zimbabwe, Harare Sports Club March 20: Afghanistan v UAE, Old Hararians Sports Club March 21: Scotland v Windies, Harare Sports Club March 22: Match 8, Zimbabwe v UAE, Harare Sports Club March 23: Match 9, Afghanistan v Ireland, Harare Sports Club  — icc-cricket.com