GOVERNMENT must reduce the workload on female educators, as part of efforts to bridge the inequality gap in the sector, the Zimbabwe Teachers’ Association (Zimta) has said. BY ANESU MSHAWATU In a statement to mark International Women’s Day on Thursday, Zimta secretary-general, Tapson Sibanda said the current situation was proving difficult for women teachers to strike a balance between their professional and family roles. “In an endeavour to achieve gender equality and women educators’ empowerment, we appeal to the Primary and Secondary Education ministry to review and revise the workload.
“The current work overload for teachers is manifesting in large class sizes, hindering women from striking a balance between their professional roles and family roles,” he said. “As the Zimbabwean national statistics unveils, women teachers in schools do not enjoy the same or equal opportunities as men in professional progression.” Sibanda added that the 2018 celebrations provided a platform for reflection on the contributions of women to social cohesion and development. “In embracing the 2018 theme, we take into cognisance that this is a time to reflect on achievements, to take note of women’s progression and confront the challenges ahead with the conviction that gender biases in the education sector must and will be eradicated, locally and globally,” the Zimta secretary-general said. According to the Zimbabwe National Statistical Agency’s 2016 survey, leadership and influence in Zimbabwe’s education sector is tilted in favour of men with the most influential posts being held by men, in both unions and the government, “although, teaching is highly feminised with statistics indicating that at least 57 % of workers in this profession are women”. Zimta reaffirmed  its commitment to transforming women educators’ lives through promotion of women participation and leadership in contributing to change, development and transformation of lives. This year’s celebrations were running under the theme Time is now Rural and Urban Activists Transforming Women’s Lives.