DESPITE assembling a relatively youthful squad, Highlanders’ coach Madinda Ndlovu is looking forward to a winning start to this year’s Castle Premier Soccer League season, when they host Black Rhinos at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow. BY FORTUNE MBELE Ndlovu said he had not watched Black Rhinos in action in recent times, so he is preparing his team for the unknown. “I don’t know Black Rhinos.  This is our first game this year. I knew them 10 years ago. I don’t know whether they are a physical team or they are ball players. At this point in time it’s how we open our season and that is to give our supporters the best performance and probably sealing up by winning the game. I am mostly worried about putting together a formation or strategy that will bring results or make us be a force to reckon with. We will prepare for this game as Highlanders; put our strategy in place and go out there to play the best football that will give us results,” Ndlovu said. The Highlanders supporters should look forward to MacClive Phiri to spearhead their attack from the left-back with Newman Sianchali upfront. Godfrey Makaruse and Gabriel Nyoni have impressed in the pre-season playing from the wings. Ndlovu said he has been preparing a side that will win games while playing exciting football. “We prepare to win all our games and it’s a game of football which has got three results, a win, a loss and draw. The fact that we have 17 teams to play against should tell you that you are not the best; you have got to be always on toes throughout the marathon. We will see the results as they unfold, but for now what is important is to make sure that we have these youngsters’ dreams coming true. We don’t forget the major reason for this project; it’s a three-year project that needs to be put on track and that is to manage to play entertaining and meaningful football,” he said. Black Rhinos are no pushovers though and they will be well aware of the benefits of a good start to their season. The army side flew out of the blocks last season, picking valuable points at the start and while they faltered later in the campaign, they had gathered enough points to escape relegation. They have bolstered their squad by bringing in the likes of Masimba Mambare, Allen Gahadzikwa and Augustine Mbara.