SPONSORS of the PPC Matopos 33-Miler Ultra-Marathon have pledged to continue to support various sporting disciplines in the country. BY FORTUNE MBELE This year’s edition of the PPC Matopos 33-miler Ultra-Marathon will be held on March 24 and is set to attract 2 000 runners. Speaking at the launch of this year’s race, PPC Zimbabwe managing director Kelibone Masiyane on Thursday said they will continue to make sure the race grows, while also backing other sporting disciplines. “We would like to assure our runners and stakeholders that the PPC Marathon seeks to grow year on year and develop the race to being the true world class event that it is,” he said. “PPC Zimbabwe seeks to develop healthy living through sport and we uphold this drive through our various sponsorships in diverse sport codes including athletics, tennis, rugby and cricket both at professional and grassroots level. “We believe a healthy body equals a healthy mind, which, in turn, leads to productive active members of our society.” Last month, PPC unveiled a new kit for the national cricket team, which is taking part in the International Cricket Council World Cup qualifiers which are being hosted by Zimbabwe in Harare, Bulawayo and Kwekwe. This year’s PPC Matopos 33-Miler Ultra-Marathon will also be partnering Childline Zimbabwe, as part of their corporate social responsibility programmes. “PPC is committed to uplifting the societies in which we operate in. Over the years as an entity, we have engaged the health sector, education and sporting sectors in various projects that we have partnered. This year we are partnering with Childline, an organisation synonymous with championing and protecting children and their rights. PPC Zimbabwe is partnering Childline in the provision of exercise books, pens and rulers to various beneficiaries across the country through their organisational network. We are passionate about investing in children because they are our future,” Masiyane said. Registration for the race is in progress and registration forms are available from the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe as well as PPC Zimbabwe offices throughout the country. PPC have also introduced and on-line registration on the race site. Lyno Muchena from Mutare won last year’s main race in 3:13:28 beating second-placed Andrew Chimbidzikai of Black Rhinos, who clocked 3:14:49, while Peter Tumbare of Airforce of Zimbabwe, the winner in 2016 came third in 3:15:22.