THERE is a widespread assumption in society that people in the music industry choose that career path out of desperation or because they would have failed in other worthwhile pursuits. BY ANESU MUSHAWATU Award-winning songbird and entrepreneur, Cindy Munyavi, told NewsDay Weekender yesterday that it was frustrating when people ask her what else she did besides music. She opened up in an interview after having tweeted: “People need to start respecting musicians as professionals… I hate it when someone ask what else do you do besides music… if I had told you I was a doctor would you ask me the same question.” Cindy said such sentiments undermined a musician’s profession. “I get frustrated when people undermine someone else’s efforts. People should know that music is a full-time job for many in the country, whether or not the person is educated,” she told NewsDay Weekender. “Yes, we are not paid what is due to us but with the current economy, who is? Most mainstream professions, including nurses to doctors, are not paying well. In fact, people should know that most musicians are likely to earn more than most of these mainstream professions.” Cindy said people usually asked the question in an offensive manner, undermining the profession. She stressed that such attitudes were likely to deflate aspiring musicians’ dreams. “I urge parents to take children who want to venture into the industry seriously because music as a profession can contribute immensely to the nation’s gross domestic product and if people do not change their mindset the future generations of musicians will be destroyed,” she said. “My fight is for art. If someone decides to venture into music, please respect their hustle. My rant is basically on respecting the music industry as a profession. Respect the people that put a lot of time and sweat in their art. At the end of the day, what is a nation without entertainment? It is basically a necessity.” Cindy, who owns a boutique, recalled an incident in which a customer walked into her shop and upon seeing her pictures on the walls, asked if Cindy was the owner. “She went on to say that she did not think I was able to think outside the box and come out with something as beautiful as a shop,” she said. She urged Zimbabweans to celebrate their musicians as was the case in other countries and added that the money she used to start her shop came from music. The diva recently released a video for her song, Clap for my Babie, on Youtube, which has clocked over 6000 views.