The subject of faith under grace is one aspect that at surface level appears so clear and obvious. At closer look, it has widely been misrepresented. As a new creation believer always makes sure you’re not carried along by winds of religious error. On some pulpits and regrettably many, faith has been erroneously taught thereby disenfranchising believers of the finished works of Jesus Christ. The Gospel of Christ provides salvation based on the finished works of Jesus Christ by whose faith we were redeemed. The faith of Jesus Christ reconciled us to God and His righteousness brings us faultless to God. In Christ, we’re innocent, guiltless, holy, pardoned, forgiven and not condemned. Faith is a wide biblical theme and for us to get to its root, let us examine the obedience of Jesus Christ. By Erasmus Makarimayi Jesus came under the law or during the subsistence of the Old Testament to meet its demands and fulfill its requirements. The Old Testament is a covenant of demands. This covenant only became the old because a new one and better one for that matter had come. The old one is the one by which God delivered the children of Israel out of Egypt. Hebrews 8:9 explains, “Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord.” In this dispensation of grace, don’t be tied to a covenant done away with. The Old Testament consisted of demands carrying blessings for obedience. Trespass brought punishment. At its inception the Israelites had promised obedience which they failed to do. Exodus 24:3 & 7 record, “[3] And Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord, and all the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice, and said, All the words which the Lord hath said will we do. [7] And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they said, All that the Lord hath said will we do, and be obedient.” With one voice, the people promised obedience but dramatically transgressed; as they say, even before the ink of the agreement had dried up. God would later remark of the disobedience of the people in Jeremiah 7:23-24, “[23] But this thing commanded I them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people: and walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well unto you. [24] But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in the counsels and in the imagination of their evil heart, and went backward, and not forward.” It became necessary for Jesus to come to meet the demands and fulfill the requirements. Hebrews 10:7 – 9 make it so clear, “[7] Then said I, Lo, I come (in the volume of the book it is written of me,) to do thy will, O God. [9] Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.” The only one capable of fulfilling the law was Jesus. So He came and did exactly that and in so doing He took away the first (Old Testament) to usher in the New Testament. It’s, therefore, the obedience of Jesus that qualified us. Sin came through one man, Adam. One Man, Jesus Christ, brought us to obedience. Romans 5:19 puts it, “For as by one man’s disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous.” This is the finished works of Jesus Christ, the grace of God. The Old Testament is doing, the New Testament is what is already done. The Old Testament is knowing and doing, the New Testament is knowing and believing. On this basis we will be able to understand more clearly the faith of Jesus Christ. We don’t reinvent the wheel and we don’t suffer double jeopardy. In Christ, we’re therefore God’s righteousness. 2 Corinthians 5:21 seals, “For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.” We partake of the grace of God freely and unapologetically. We’re saved by one Man’s obedience, the Man Christ Jesus. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge.  All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated.
Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org
Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632