DYNAMOS have roped in former Harare City striker, Kuda Kumwala as a back up to chief striker, Christian Ntouba Epoupa, as they bid for the championship. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Kumwala trained with the Glamour Boys yesterday, as coach, Lloyd Mutasa assesses him with a view to signing him before the end of the week. The Glamour Boys still had one slot left for a striker, as they ready for the season, which bursts into life on Saturday. Ntouba, who has not been attending training, as he had issues with management over outstanding payments, reported for duty yesterday, while his issues were being attended to.
Although club secretary, Webster Marechera was not willing to give much, it is understood the deal to bring Kumwala on board was at an advanced stage. “I am not aware of the player you are talking about. I didn’t attend training, so I don’t have information on that,” he said. Efforts to get comment from Mutasa were unsuccessful. The Dynamos coach had identified Kumwala, as backup to Ntouba, whose future  had become uncertain with several foreign clubs having expressed interest in him. But even after Ntouba failed to land a contract in South Africa, Mutasa continued to pursue the Harare City striker, who he has previously spoken highly of. Kumwala joined Harare City in 2015 after an explosive season with Division One side, Hartley Academy, but was restricted to cameo roles at the Sunshine City Boys. He is part of the crew whose contracts were not renewed at the end of season. Dynamos have assembled a new-look squad, comprising several young players, who have produced impressive displays in the build up to the season, with wins over rivals, Caps United and Highlanders in the ZNA Charity Shield tournament. The Harare giants, who were beaten to the championship by FC Platinum on the last day of the season, to settle for a second place have declared they are gunning for the championship this season. However, the Glamour Boys, who lost their final preparatory match against Mutare City 2-1 at the weekend, have what appears on paper a tough opening fixture –  a trip to Bulawayo – where they face bogey side, Chicken Inn on Saturday. The match is the headliner of the opening weekend of the league, with champions FC Platinum opening their title defence away to ZPC Kariba, who are temporarily using the National Sports Stadium, since their Nyamhunga Stadium was condemned. Opening week fixtures Saturday: Bulawayo City v Chapungu (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum v Herentals (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (National Sports Stadium), Nichrut FC v Mutare City (Mandava), Yadah FC v Bulawayo Chiefs (Rufaro), Chicken Inn v Dynamos (Barbourfields), Sunday: Highlanders v Black Rhinos (Barbourfields), Shabanie Mine v Triangle (Mandava),  Caps United v Harare City (National Sports Stadium)