Zimbabwe national cricket team captain, Graeme Cremer is concerned about the lack of runs, especially in the top five, as the team heads to the next stage of the International Cricket Council World Cup qualifier taking place in Harare, Kwekwe and Bulawayo. By Kevin Mapasure After escaping with a point following a rare draw with Scotland in their last Group B match on Monday, Zimbabwe will be looking to rectify batting frailties, as they bid to claim one of the spots at England 2019.
Zimbabwe staggered to 210-all out before staging a spirited fightback with the ball forcing a draw that saw them progressing to the Super Six stage, with three points as did Scotland, while Afghanistan crept through, but will start pointless, after losing to both Zimbabwe and Scotland in their pool. Cremer, while praising the bowling effort, said he was disappointed with the way they batted on a good surface in the first innings of the day after winning the toss. It was a surface where spin was expected to play a key part, but Zimbabwe struggled at the face of Scotland’s seam. Zimbabwe also struggled in similar circumstances against Afghanistan, before they pulled themselves out of the fire to win the match right at the death. Cremer said Zimbabwe cannot continue riding their luck and challenged the top five to step up. “Our batting is a bit of a concern at the moment because we are not getting the runs,” he said. “In these situations, you should be looking at around 270 and anything below that there is a good chance you will lose the match. We should have lost the match against Scotland, I thought they should have got to the target easily. But we bowled well and credit to the guys. We do not know how to feel after a performance like this and we shouldn’t allow things to get to this point. The top five are not getting enough runs to give us in the lower middle order a platform to just go out there and hit.” Cremer said they will be looking for solutions in the run up to Friday’s clash with Ireland at Harare Sports Club. The selectors will be looking to change a few things, as the team plays at a pacier and bouncier Harare Sports Club. Tendai Chisoro, who took three wickets in the Scotland match could find himself sidelined again to make way for either Kyle Jarvis or Richard Ngarava. Cremer was full of praise for Chisoro’s attitude and work ethic. “Chisoro has got a wonderful attitude. He had not played any match save for the Scotland match, but even when he is not selected, he doesn’t put his head down. He stills trains hard, waiting for his chance and in this match he came in and did well for us.” Zimbabwe will be looking for at least two wins in the last stage, where they play Ireland, United Arab Emirates and West Indies all in Harare.