The MDC Alliance will hold another star rally on Saturday in Dete, Matabeleland North, which will be addressed by MDC-T leader and MDC Alliance presidential candidate, Nelson Chamisa. BY TALENT GUMPO The rally comes after the alliance held another one in Chinhoyi on Sunday. MDC Matabeleland North provincial chairman, Leonard Mhlanga said the rally will be used to sensitise members of different political parties under the coalition. “The rally must bring about unity amongst Zimbabweans and we also expect to receive a political understanding amongst members of the MDC Alliance,” he said. Mhlanga said the rally was one of the most important in the history of MDC since the ouster of former President Robert Mugabe. “This is one of the key and most important events to our supporters and there is need for Zimbabweans to see a reason of rallying behind a young energetic man like Chamisa,” he said. Mhlanga added that Zimbabweans must make sure that the government which will win the forthcoming elections, should utilise resources for the benefit of local communities.
“It is important that natural resources should benefit local people and the government should desist from its past tendencies of bringing people who are not locals to come and exploit our resources. Even in terms of employment people in the region are not benefiting at all,” he said. “Matabeleland is rich in natural resources, we need to get the royalties of the resources that are exploited in our region. We have wildlife, timber and gas among other resources.” The rally will also be used as an opportunity to inform Chamisa about problems surrounding local communities in Matabeleland North. MDC Alliance is a coalition of seven parties launched in August 2017 with the aim of challenging Zanu PF in this year’s harmonised elections. The alliance has been rooting for the youthful Chamisa to be the presidential candidate. After the death of Morgan Tsvangirai the alliance recently confirmed Chamisa as its presidential candidate.