A CONTIGENT of local artistes is set to perform in Geneva at a global event dubbed the Health Conversation Poetry and Music today. BY SHARON SIBINDI The artistes — poets Albert Nyathi and Daniel Low-Beer as well as musician Dereck Mpofu — left the country this week and will be in Switzerland for seven days at the event organised by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Nyathi confirmed the development in an interview with NewsDay Life & Style before their departure from Zimbabwe. “I am going to Geneva with Dereck Mpofu. We will be attending a Health Conversation Poetry and Music event and we will be there for one week,” he said. “On March 8 (today), Mpofu and I will do a presentation on bringing WHO’s work to the community, then we have a big show in the evening, where we will perform before the audience.” Nyathi said he was involved in the community conversations, which are health related. “Basically I am involved in the idea of creating what we call community conversations. The whole idea involves me, Daniel Low-Beer and Mpofu. The conversations that we are currently doing are health related — be it HIV, TB, malaria, prostate cancer — you name it. We believe that through conversations a lot can be achieved,” he said. The event will run under communicable diseases cluster retreat aimed at delivering communicable diseases agenda in alignment with United Health Care (UHC) and General Programme of Work (2019-2023) for achieving impact at the country level. The expected outcome is an agreement on concrete follow up actions to strengthen internal collaboration of CDS cluster within WHO. Nyathi said his book,  and My Son, would also be used as part of the conversations. Nyathi is a Zimbabwean poet who is particularly famous for the poem and song Senzeni na?, which he composed following the assassination of Chris Hani, while Mpofu — popularly known for his hit track Chisikana Changu Zimbabwe — is the a goodwill environmental ambassador for the Environment, Water and Climate ministry.