Highlanders and Caps United will test their ammunition ahead of the 2018 Premier Soccer League season when they clash in the KCD Mohadi Charity match at Barbourfields stadium tomorrow. BY FORTUNE MBELE Bosso beat Chicken Inn 2-1 in the semi-final of the ZNA Charities Shield before they lost to Dynamos by the same scoreline last Sunday and tomorrow they face the Green Machine in a match to celebrate the ascendancy of Kembo Mohadi to the post of Vice-President. Proceeds of the match to be donated to the Mpilo Central Hospital cancer unit and two other charitable organisations while $30 000 has been set aside for the teams. The match is probably the last for the two sides in preparation for the 2018 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season and they will be looking to reap more than just the money. Highlanders coach Madinda Ndlovu is pleased that his team has been involved in tough fixtures in the pre-season matches. “We take it from where we left (against Dynamos).  We just have to build up from what we noted against Dynamos and rectify some things against Caps. The game against Caps came at the right time. When you play against two giants back-to-back you really test your strength. This is the time we are going to test the strength of our boys from playing such an endurance game like the one against Dynamos to playing a game against experienced players from Caps United,” Ndlovu said. He, however, said that he would not be worried too much about the result. “We are playing these games to test how far things have gone in terms of the knowledge imparted to the boys and also the vision we want to achieve. The result is not really what we are looking at but of course where there is something at stake you play to win,” he said. Newman Sianchali, Thabo Lunga, Adrian Silla, Godfrey Makaruse, Nigel Makumbe and McClive Phiri are some of the players who will come under the spotlight at Highlanders. The Green Machine will probably also be fielding returning players such as Method Mwanjali, Roderick Mutuma and Dominic Mukandi.
Caps United have been training at AmaZulu Sports Club this week. Fans will pay $2 for the rest of the ground, $5 for the wings and $10 for the VIP.