IN the end, nobody should really complain. Caps United got what they deserved and Harare City too. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA CAPS UNITED……………..0
Harare CITY…………….0 The Green Machine might have been the dominant side in the first half of this Castle Lager Premiership opener against Harare City at the National Sports Stadium yesterday, but were unconvincing in the final third where they were wasteful. Their forwards Brian Muzondiwa, John Zhuwawo and Simba Nhivi got into scoring positions, but the execution was poor. Coach Lloyd Chitembwe, who has not hidden his ambition to win the championship this term, is not concerned though. “I am satisfied with the result. We did well in the first half. I saw a lot of improvements in different areas. The dominance was there. What lacked was composure in the front of goal maybe it was because of anxiety. I think it’s something we can work on, considering that this is our first game and we still have a long way to go,” Chitembwe said. Harare City coach Mark Harrison was equally pleased with the result. “We are very satisfied because we were playing one of the best teams in the country. “Caps United have experience and they have played Champions League football. They had a number of good chances and then after that we created our own chances as well,” he observed. Zhuwawo had an opportunity in the first minute, when he found himself in the danger zone, only to blast his effort over the bar. Muzondiwa also came close on 13 minutes as the Green Machine launched wave after wave of attack in their opponent’s goal. Then Zhuwawo had his effort superbly saved by goalkeeper Maxwell Nyamupanedengu, following a set up by Muzondiwa on 21 minutes. However, the Sunshine City Boys refused to be cowed into submission as they came out of fighting with Takudzwa Chimwemwe getting close with a headed opportunity on 29 minutes. Harare City were in control at this stage and Chimwemwe could have thrust the team ahead on 36 minutes, but failed to control the ball in the box. Apparently, Moses Muchenje, who left Caps for City during the off season, provided that pass. In the second half, Harare City continued to probe and Kuda Musharu came close on 48 minutes only for his effort to be saved by Prosper Chigumba. However, on the 51st minute, Caps United could have gone up, but a headed effort by Muzondiwa crashed against the upright post. Caps United captain Stephen Makatuka also missed a headed opportunity on the 69th minute as the home team took control. It was Harare City, however, who could have killed off the game with substitute Martin Vengesayi’s effort being superbly saved by Chigumba. Teams Caps United:  K Nyamupfukudza, V Musarurwa, J Jangano, S Makatuka, C Kamhapa, W Mutasa (A Fuga 38’(M Ncube 67), S Nhivi, J Ngodzo, J Zhuwawo, B Muzondiwa
Harare City: M Nyamupanedengu, R Uchena, T Chimwemwe, B Chayambuka, M Nyenye, M L Muyambo, Muchenje, W Manondo, K Musharu (T Balakase 85’), T Tumba (P Mpelele 71’), D Chimwemwe (M Vengesayi 56’)