DYNAMOS assistant coach Biggie Zuze has expressed disappointment after his team surrendered a three-goal advantage to draw 3-3 against a resilient Shabanie at the weekend, a result that left the Harare giants with a point from their opening two matches of the season. BY HENRY MHARA Irate DeMbare fans barricaded the exit from Rufaro Stadium, voicing their anger, following the disappointing result and had to be dispersed by the police. The result followed a 1-0 defeat away to bogey side Chicken Inn, in the opening match of the season last weekend. “We don’t have to press the panic baton now. We saw how they play, very good football. It’s only the lack of communication in defending, but we will recover,” Zuze, who was standing in for the absent coach Lloyd Mutasa, said. “We have to regroup as a team. We know a lot of things will be talked about, but as long as the team remains intact, we will cover (the gap). It’s just two games played, you cannot win the league or get relegated after two games. We are still shaping the team with the youngsters that are coming up and the experienced players. We are happy with the way new players like Raphael Manuvire performed today. We have more positives than negatives from the match.” Three goals from Valentine Kadonzvo, Kudzanai Dhemere and Quality Kangadze appeared enough to hand Dynamos three points. However, Shabanie Mine hit back through double scorer David Temwanjira and Richard Kawondera, who scored inside a 13-minute period with the Dynamos defence failing to deal with set-pieces and long balls inside their box. Zuze admitted their defence has been the team’s weakest link so far. “From our first match (against Chicken Inn), we didn’t create enough chances the way we did today. We controlled the game, and I liked the way we moved in transition, when the ball changed hands, we managed that very well. We need just to lift up everyone because we showed a lot of character after coming from a defeat in the first game. We know the supporters are disappointed by the result but in terms of performance, the boys tried their best by scoring three goals and creating chances.” Dynamos started slowly in the last two previous campaigns, picking the same number of points at this stage, and then improved. Last year, they were beaten by FC Platinum 1-0 and drew 2-2 against Triangle in their opening two games, but went on to lose the championship by just two points. Before that, they had lost their opener 3-0 to Chicken Inn and were held to a goalless draw by Triangle in the second match. The opening fixtures haven’t been too kind to Dynamos as well, with Ngezi Platinum and Bosso up next during the Easter weekend.