FORMER MDC-T deputy president Thokozani Khupe has started setting up interim structures, with Bulawayo Proportional Representation legislator Nomvula Mnguni, now acting chairperson for her breakaway faction. BY NQOBANI NDLOVU Khupe has vowed to contest the upcoming presidential election on an MDC-T ticket, although she was recently fired by the opposition party’s national council for refusing to recognise the elevation of Nelson Chamisa to the post of party president. Khupe dismissed her recent expulsion as null and void. Mnguni confirmed yesterday that she was now the interim chairperson of the Khupe-led MDC-T, adding other provincial structures would be set up this weekend.
“I am the interim chairperson. It’s still work in progress, but the idea is that we need a team to work with, as we prepare for the elective congress and the coming elections. “This is not selective of Bulawayo, but in other provinces too,” she said. The congress is scheduled for next month with the date and venue to be announced in due course. Mnguni is deputised by Mathias Moyo, a former member of Bulawayo’s provincial executive. Khupe, organising secretary Abednico Bhebhe and spokesperson Obert Gutu were expelled from the MDC-T on Thursday for challenging Chamisa’s power grab through a national council resolution. Former chairperson and Speaker of Parliament and Matobo North legislator, Lovemore Moyo, also quitted the opposition party. Khupe’s personal assistant, Witness Dube, yesterday ruled out any chance of his boss and Chamisa mending ties, and uniting ahead of elections. “We have no interest of coming back because we want a vibrant political atmosphere.  We know if we all support MDC-T, then, it will end up like Zanu PF and, therefore, it’s healthy to have some good brains in opposition, so that we have a functional competitive political atmosphere that will foster development,” Dube said, adding that they were the real MDC-T. “We all formed the initial MDC in 1999. It was the only opposition and greedy leaders led to the split and the many numerous parties, but MDC is a national effort and these people who claim to own it are opportunistic thugs,” he added. MDC-T Bulawayo provincial spokesperson Felix Magalela Sibanda said the party was founded on membership, not individuals like Khupe who were bent in destabilising the people’s project, “Leaders come and go, but institutions are permanent. It is most unfortunate that the Khupe cabal chose to work with Zanu PF and other tribal bogus or dubious formations. We are not moved.”