CHRISTIAN Ntouba has expressed displeasure with the treatment he is receiving from Dynamos and has asked to leave the club, as he feels they have failed to honour some contractual obligations. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Ntouba has been at loggerheads with the Harare football giants over non-payment of outstanding signing-on fees and last season allowances amounting to $16 000. While Dynamos claimed on Tuesday, they had deposited the money they owe to the player, Ntouba’s manager, Gilbert Sengwe said his client had only received $3 000.
Sengwe accused them of being dishonest to the player, whom he now wants to be cleared, so he can look for a job elsewhere. “The way he is being treated, he feels he is no longer wanted. They said they deposited another $7 000, but the money is not there in the account. What makes matters worse is that they can’t even write a letter to help him secure foreign currency to send back home since he is a foreigner,” he said. “The problem is that they don’t want to engage and that simply shows they no longer want him. They should just clear him, because he now feels the environment is no longer conducive.  He is no longer focused and wants to leave because of the ill-treatment he is getting. He never thought it will come to this,” Sengwe said. Ntouba has stated his desire to play for Dynamos. Although he has been training with the club, he missed the team’s opening two matches of the campaign against Chicken Inn and Shabanie Mine in protest over his outstanding dues. He has not been included in the squad to play Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab Stadium this afternoon. DeMbare have a huge task awaiting them this afternoon, with a trip to Ngezi Platinum, a team that is flying high, with two wins out of two. The two teams’ clashes have been fiercely contested in recent times, with their last league match marred by violence. The match ended 2-0 in favour of Ngezi, while the reverse fixture, ended as a seven-goal thriller in favour of Dynamos. The home side have called for the two teams’ supporters to behave. Ngezi Platinum coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, whose team beat Triangle 2-0 at the weekend, is hoping his side can make it three wins in a row. He has targeted wins in the first five games. “We have had a good run here at Baobab and we looking at maintain that record for some time. We have had some exciting matches against Dynamos before and the last game we played last season comes to mind, although in the end the match was spoiled by violence,” he said “We want to do well in the first five games of the season, that’s what we have set ourselves to do and I hope we will play well against Dynamos. I am also hoping issues of fatigue won’t affect us.” Dynamos welcome back coach, Lloyd Mutasa, who did not witness his side crumbling against Shabanie Mine, as he was away in Zambia with the national team.