We’re born again as believers by the Word of God. Staying therein and partaking of it produces growth and maturity. It’s natural for human beings to desire development, advancement and better in life. We’re enhanced by what begot us, that is the Gospel of Christ or the Grace of God. The one who begot us, (God the Father in Christ Jesus), sees to it that we grow. We, therefore, don’t shun what He dishes out in and through His Word, the Bible. 
By Erasmus Makarimayi Our growth isn’t by human effort. Since we’re saved by grace through faith, we grow by grace through faith. We shall explain this as we open up our subject. I emphasise here that our salvation isn’t based on our good deeds, works of righteousness or human self effort, but it’s the free gift of God. This gift is unearned, undeserved, unmerited and human unattainable. When a non-believer hears the Word from the Scriptures or the Bible or the message of Christ, the Gospel of Christ, the Grace of God, the Good News of Jesus Christ or His Glad Tidings, faith is generated and by acceptance, they’re born again in the faith of Christ Jesus. When believers continue to hear this message, knowledge increases. Romans 10:17 (New King James) details: “So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.” The deposit of this faith is the hope of eternal salvation. The Word remains. 1 Peter 1:23 confirms: “Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth for ever.” The nurturing of this Seed (Word) produces growth. For this reason we keep repeating the importance of reading and studying the Bible and meditating thereon. We therefore don’t skip church services or gathering of saints for the sharing of the Word. Spiritual growth is the development of the believer in Christ. It is not an option even though it is determined by the believer’s attitude towards God’s Word. As we have seen, the Word is the key to spiritual growth. Please remember that by the Word, we mean the finished works of Christ. We don’t get saved by grace and live, mature and grow by works or by the Mosaic law. The Gospel of Christ which is the Grace of God is a promissory note in the Law, prophecy in the prophets and the fulfillment is found only in the Epistles. When we feed on this, we feed on Christ. We’re taught in Colossians 2:6-7, “As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him: Rooted and built up in him, and stablished in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving.” The issue here is how were we saved? We were saved by grace through faith. We’re answered in Ephesians 2:8-9: “For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God: Not of works, lest any man should boast.” It’s important to note that we were not saved by aids like water, salt, oil or stones. It’s grace through and through. Grace is the foundation, building bricks, roof, ceiling, colour paintings and window frames of the Christian Faith. We’re rooted, built and established in the Faith by grace. For emphasis, grace isn’t for salvation only and then efforts and self-help concluding all others.
We grow in grace. Apostle Peter gives us the instruction for growth in 2 Peter 3:18: “But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and for ever. Amen.” Grace is the Word of God that is responsible for our growth. John reveals in John 1:1,14: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.” We’re Bible or Word based. We behold the Word, which is our mirror. We hunger and thirst for the Word. Apostle Peter instructs in 1 Peter 2:2-3: “As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby: If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious.” Dear believer, choose to be patient and allow the Word to be fully developed in you. Apostle Paul paints the picture in Galatians 4:19, Amplified: “My little children, for whom I am again suffering birth pangs until Christ is completely and permanently formed (moulded) within you.” Please give the Word an opportunity and enough space to influence your whole being and nature. Apostle Paul’s closing remarks to the elders at Ephesus is equally instructive. Acts 20:32, Amplified records: “And now [brethren], I commit you to God [I deposit you in His charge, entrusting you to His protection and care]. And I commend you to the Word of His grace [to the commands and counsels and promises of His unmerited favour]. It is able to build you up and to give you [your rightful] inheritance among all God’s set-apart ones (those consecrated, purified, and transformed of soul).”
Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. l All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated.
Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org
Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632