A believer’s perspective or viewpoint in life is permanent disposition, as opposed to temporary approach. We put our all in what we’re divinely led to pursue. By Erasmus Makarimayi Our attitude, and conviction, are anchored on the reality of the finished works of Christ Jesus, which are permanent. We are moulded in the eternal heart of God, whose eternal life is our being. Our natural (supernatural) default is completion or logical conclusion. We commit and endeavour to see the good end of every assignment we undertake and every project we embark on. As a general norm, we don’t apply piecemeal attention to what we lay our hands on. We’re set or wired to finish triumphantly. Flowing out of the resurrected life of Jesus Christ, we’re more than conquerors. The starting point is to appreciate that a born again believer is born again to eternal life. This is the fulcrum for our hope, courage and determination in life. God invested or gave up all for our everlasting life. Jesus speaks in John 3:16: “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.”
We’re saved not to perish, but to enjoy life in abundance. After our slot on earth in this age, we will live forever. Jesus nails it in John 6:39-40: “[39] And this is the Father’s will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. “[40] And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.” You’re not a pilot project, you’re eternally saved and redeemed. Speaking of the surety of our salvation, Apostle Paul assures us in Philippians 1:6: “Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:” We, therefore, lead confident lives. Fear does not dominate our hearts and minds. This work is the work of salvation, which is total and complete redemption. We are usually quick to associate this verse with houses, cars, jobs and marriage. It helps to get the context first. How unfortunate will it be that someone is so convinced that they will finish building their mansion, but are so fearful of the age to come. First things first. Eternity is guaranteed in Christ. We look ahead with assurance. Romans 10:11 confirms: “For the scripture saith, whosoever believeth in him shall not be ashamed.” We won’t be shocked at the consummation of times or at the pearl gates if you prefer. It’s necessary, however, as eternally saved believers to exhibit this faith in our daily application of life. We enrol in schools, colleges and universities not to drop out. Our motive of entering into relationships is not to get disappointed. We marry to remain together and not to divorce. In the same vein, we start projects not to falter along the way. Zechariah 4:9 directs: “The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also finish it; and thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me unto you.” In God’s hands and eyes, the project is sealed and finished before beginning. The eternal realm declares so. It’s not by human might or power, but by the Spirit of God. The grace of God does it. Zechariah 4:7 tells us: “Who art thou, O great mountain? before Zerubbabel thou shalt become a plain: and he shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shoutings, crying, Grace, grace unto it.” Whatever stands against you, melts away by the grace of God. Eternity is in our hearts. Ecclesiastes 3:11, Amplified Bible, records: “He has made everything beautiful in its time. “He also has planted eternity in men’s hearts and minds [a divinely implanted sense of a purpose working through the ages which nothing under the sun but God alone can satisfy], yet so that men cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end.” We function on a victory mind-set. The faith of Jesus Christ, working in us, propels us to safe landing. We look ahead and never surrender to the forces of evil. Hebrews 10:39, New King James, speaks to our reality: “But we are not of those who draw back to perdition, but of those who believe to the saving of the soul.” Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. l All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated.
Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org
Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632