A TOP Zimbabwean engineer, Martin Manuhwa, has been invited to be a panellist of a high level session on integrity/anti-corruption in infrastructure projects of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) that will begin in Paris, France, next Tuesday. BY Staff Reporter OECD head of division, public sector integrity, Janos Bertok, said Manuhwa’s presence at the Global Anti-Corruption and Integrity Forum offers an invaluable opportunity to share and learn from his practical experience in combating fraud and corruption in infrastructure projects. “In particular, your insights on managing corruption risks throughout the project cycle and your extensive experience as an engineer offer an illuminating perspective on how to promote integrity in infrastructure projects in a hands on and proactive manner,” Bertok said in the invitation letter. “Your personal commitment to tackling corruption in this sector, as evidenced by your involvement in the development of an infrastructure anti-corruption index in Zambia and Zimbabwe, would contribute greatly to the discussions at the Forum and provide invaluable insights for the future direction of the global agenda for ensuring integrity in infrastructure development.” Manuhwa will participate on the plenary panel, “Building a Foundation for Integrity in Public Infrastructure”.
OECD Global Anti-Corruption and Integrity Forum is the OECD’s public multi-stakeholder platform shaping anti-corruption and integrity dialogue between governments, policy communities, private sector, civil society and academia. Manuhwa is the chairman of the World Federation of Engineering Organisations (WFEO) and also vice-president and chair of standing technical committee on anti-corruption. He has worked closely with the International Standardisation Organisation (ISO), where he was one of the liaison organisations’ (WFEO) representative in the drafting of the ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management System
Standard. Manuhwa is the immediate past chairman of the Engineering Council of Zimbabwe and past president of the Zimbabwe Institution of Engineers. He is also past chairperson of the Southern African Federation of Engineering Organisations.