ZANU PF central committee member, Joshua Sacco has reportedly rolled out various developmental projects in Chimanimani East constituency, as part of his campaign for the seat, which fell vacant recently following the recall of former legislator and Energy minister Samuel Undenge from the ruling party. BY KENNETH NYANGANI Sacco told NewsDay last Friday that some of the projects he had initiated include electrifying schools and rehabilitating roads. He said some of the projects have been ongoing since 2013, when he won the party’s primary elections, but was blocked from representing the constituency by then Presidential Affairs minister Didymus Mutasa. Sacco, who is known as Mukwasha in Zanu PF circles, narrated how Mutasa in 2013 handpicked Undenge and imposed him on the constituency. “I am a member of central committee. I won the primary elections for Zanu PF in 2013, but Didymus Mutasa used his power to give the seat to Samuel Undenge, it was painful indeed,” he said. “We are looking at electrifying schools around the constituency, there is a lot of work that needs to be done. We have already started rehabilitating roads. Roads have been our major stumbling block,” he said. “After his (Undenge)’s expulsion, the seat was given to me by war veterans, councillors and various stakeholders from Zanu PF. I have hit the ground running. We are embarking on water harvesting projects,we have over 20 dams in Chimanimani, which were heavily-silted and are embarking on dam scooping. We have also successfully conducted the project on 12 dams, so that our farmers benefit from water in the dams.” The aspiring MP said that there was need to legalise artisanal mining, claiming the government will benefit from it. “There is need to legalise artisanal miners, the government will also benefit and the good thing the miners will feel more responsible on the issued of land degradation, they will be more responsible,” he said. “We are also looking on issues of sports promotion, I am upgrading school grounds across the constituency, we have done it at Chikukwa, Ngangu and Tya primary schools,” he said.