We were brought to God by Christ Jesus by grace through faith. This was made possible by His finished/accomplished works, which we accepted and received as the Gospel/Grace was preached to us. By Erasmus Makarimayi The vehicle (medium) that brought us to God is the same vehicle that keeps us in His presence. That vehicle is Christ Jesus. He brought us by grace, which means it wasn’t because of our good deeds or works of righteousness. We’re kept and sustained by this grace forever. We didn’t deserve it, earn it, merit it or attain it. It was because of God’s goodness, love, mercy, kindness and grace. Jesus Christ brought us into the presence of God to stay and remain therein to fellowship with God the Father and worship and praise Him. The grace of God by the finished works of Jesus Christ has granted us peace with God  giving us access to Him in whom we stand, of course by grace. Apostle Paul puts it thus in Romans 5:1-2: “[1] Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ: [2] By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.” To fully enjoy the liberty and freedom of our calling, we have to comprehend and appreciate the truth and full scope and force of the finished works of our Lord Jesus Christ. We’re not only indebted to our Lord Jesus Christ for the free and full pardon which we have received, but our continuance in a justified state depends upon His gracious influence in our hearts and His intercession before the throne of God. Hebrews 7:25 describes, “Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.” Relax, enjoy your salvation. Romans 5:2 quoted above says that we have access. Please note that we received this access as it was handed to us by the obedience of Jesus. We’re earlier told of the reason for or source of our peace, access and standing in grace. Romans 4:25 records: “Who was delivered for our offences, and was raised again for our justification.” The sacrificial death of Jesus nailed our sins. His resurrection means we can stand before God free in Christ. The truth is that it was only through Christ that we could at first approach God. In the same strength it is only through Him that the privilege is continued to us. This access to God or introduction to the Divine presence, is to be considered as a lasting privilege. Adam Clarke simplifies: “We are not brought to God for the purpose of an interview, but to remain with Him; to be His household; and, by faith, to behold His face, and walk in the light of His countenance.” We fully partake of this peace, access and standing. Jesus assures us of our continual or eternal standing in John 10:28-30: “[28] And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. [29] My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father’s hand. [30] I and my Father are one.”
We’re held by the strong hand of God the Father and the Son. Before salvation we were in a state of enmity with God. This was sufficiently proved in the Scriptures by our rebellion against His authority and our transgression of His laws. However, now we have been reconciled to God and we have peace with Him. In 2 Corinthians 5:18 – 19, God’s Word Translation explains: “18 God has done all this. He has restored our relationship with him through Christ, and has given us this ministry of restoring relationships. 19 In other words, God was using Christ to restore his relationship with humanity. He didn’t hold people’s faults against them, and he has given us this message of restored relationships to tell others.” We enjoy this restored or reconciled relationship. Before receiving Jesus as Lord and Saviour that is before we’re born again, while under a sense of the guilt of sin, we had nothing but terror and dismay in our own consciences. By hearing and accepting the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Grace of God, the Good News or Glad Tidings of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ we have our sins forgiven and we have peace in our hearts; feeling that all our guilt is taken away. Peace is generally the first-fruits of our justification. Partake of this peace which is Christ in you. Colossians 1:27 encourages: “To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.” In this grace we stand without shaking. We’re rooted and established. We rejoice in hope of the glory of God having our sins remitted and our souls adopted into the heavenly family. We are at peace with God, we have access to Him and we’re standing in grace. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. l All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated.
Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org
Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632