HIGHLANDERS coach Madinda Ndlovu’s youthful side might have received the much needed confidence booster ahead of the new Castle Lager Premier Soccer League, following their win over an experienced Caps United side to lift the KCD Mohadi Shield at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELE Highlanders . . . (1) 2
Caps United . . .  (1) 1 The victory was made even more sweeter for Bosso who achieved the feat with 10-men following a red card to skipper Honest Moyo on 66th minute for an off the ball incident which involved Brian Muzondiwa who himself escaped with just a yellow card. Highlanders got $20 000 for the win while Caps received $10 000. Highlanders, who lost to Dynamos in the Zimbabwe National Army Charities Shield last week, opened the scoring from the penalty spot, converted by defensive midfielder Adrian Silla in the first half. Muzondiwa equalised as the two teams went to the break deadlocked before the impressive McClive Phiri scored the winner in the second half. Newman Sianchali was brought down inside the penalty box by Godwin Goriati and  referee pointed to the spot which Silla converted. A beautiful build-up got Highlanders the second in the 54th minute when a  cross by Gabriel Nyoni on the right was punched by goalkeeper Prosper Chigumba onto to the path of Phiri who made no mistake an blasted the ball into the nets. Caps United had equalised when Muzondiwa caught Bosso goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda flatfooted, a result of poor marking by Highlanders defenders which saw United captain Hardlife Zvirekwi flight a beautiful cross from the right. The Green Machine came back into the game after that goal and dominated play with Oscar Machapa having a field day on the left flank and Zvirekwi and John Zhuwawo also impressive on the right, but the goals couldn’t just come. Towards the end of the first half, Highlanders regained their composure with numerous quick-breaks from the centre, but Gabriel Nyoni on the right and Thabo Lunga did not come to the party losing the balls unnecessarily. Ndlovu and his opposite equivalent Lloyd Chitembwe were both excited with the performance of their players in the match. “We are really carried away by the result. What is important is to see the project develop. The boys continued from where they left against Dynamos and they did well when we were a man down and used the best football tactics. This gives a good picture of what we will be facing,” Ndlovu said. The season starts in a fortnight Chitembwe, despite the defeat, said his boys acquitted themselves well. “It was a game that we took for our preparations for the league. I am very happy there is lot of improvement in the team. The boys have grasped several concepts. So far so good; I am happy with what the boys gave. We are ready to compete and this game has served its purpose,” he said.
Teams: Highlanders: A Sibanda, M Phiri, H Moyo, C Siamalonga, P Muduhwa, B Musaka (T Ndlovu, 85′), A Silla, B Banda, T Lunga (B Ncube, 57′), G Nyoni, N Sianchali (O Zibande, 90+1′) Caps United: P Chigumba, Z Bizeki (C Munzabwa, 73′), G Goriati (M Mwanjali, 31′), S Makatuka, V Musarurwa, D Mukandi (C Kamhapa, 84′), K Nyamupfukudza (W Mutasa, 64′), O Machapa (J Ngodzo, 31′), B Muzondiwa, J Zhuwawo (T Mafugo, 81′)