HARARE giants, Dynamos have refused to be carried away by the success of their “Kidznet” in the ZNA Charities Trophy, as they ready for the new season, which starts next week, with the technical team disclosing they would balance the squad by fusing the youth and senior players. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Assistant coach, Biggie Zuze said yesterday although their youth brigade has so far produced impressive displays, registering wins over rivals, Caps United and Highlanders to lift the pre-season trophy, they still needed guidance from the team’s older guard. Dynamos open their season account with a tough away trip to Chicken Inn. “We have a difficult task in the opening matches, its almost the same with last season. But the good thing is that we played two games with two big teams in the ZNA and, according to our assessment, the youngsters did very well. It gives us hope and the message we have been telling our boys is that we have to surpass what we did last season and what that means is that we have to go for the title,” he said. “What we will do is to blend the youth and experience. We need to balance the team. We have got seniors such as Obey Mwerahari, Ocean Mushure and Marshall Machazane, who have leadership qualities. I can’t mention names, but most of the youngsters will be fighting for the first 11 place,” he said. The senior members of the squad, who did not take part against Caps United and Highlanders, were deployed against Zambian side, Buildcon in a friendly match last week and were overpowered 2-1. They also featured in two preparatory games against Division One side, ZRP Morris at Morris Depot lasy week and yesterday, losing both encounters. It was after such a sequence of results that speculation emerge that club coach, Lloyd Mutasa might be forced to use the juniors to form the core of the team. The Glamour Boys, who finished second last season, have what on paper appears to be the toughest opening matches of the campaign, as they have a tough trip to Chicken Inn and then host tricky side, Shabanie Mine in week two before embarking on another tough trip to Ngezi Platinum. They return home to face Highlanders before travelling to Nyamhunga for a date with ZPC Kariba. Dynamos will play Mutare City in their final preparatory match at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. And Zuze is appealing to the supporters to come in their numbers to rally behind the team, as they put the final touches to their preparations before the big kick-off next weekend. DeMbare believe that they can win the league title this season after agonisingly coming close last season when they were beaten to the finishing line by FC Platinum on the very last day of the league programme.