CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League giants Dynamos have returned to Rufaro stadium which they dumped for the National Sports Stadium in the second half of last season. by SPORTS REPORTER DeMbare made the move to the giant stadium where they played some of their home matches in the evening in the hope of attracting bigger crowds. The team makes a return to the Mbare stadium on Sunday when they host Shabanie in a league match on the same day that Highlanders will be hosted at the National Sports Stadium by newly promoted side Herentals. When they moved to the National Sports Stadium, the club explained that it was at the coach Lloyd Mutasa’s (pictured) request that they relocate to the giant stadium which he argued suited the team’s type of play. But that move might have hit the team’s coffers as they failed to attract the numbers they were getting at Rufaro. It was not clear by late yesterday whether their move is permanent, particularly with the stadium chaos in the country where all 18 teams in the league have to share seven stadiums since the other facilities in Gweru, Zvishavane and Gweru having failed to meet the minimum standards. On Saturday the National Sports Stadium will host a double header with Mutare City hosting Chapungu in a lunch time kick off before Black Rhinos entertain ZPC Kariba at the same venue two hours later. Harare City will play Bulawayo City at Rufaro during the same time. Some of the teams have been complaining that they are being prejudiced by being forced to play their home matches away from home. ZPC Kariba did not turn up to fulfil their fixture against FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium insisting that they would not play a home match away in Harare. After a bad start to the campaign where they lost to Chicken Inn, Dynamos will be looking to their usually vociferous Rufaro crowd to spur them to their first win of the season. On the other hand, Highlanders will be looking to take advantage of topflight novices Herentals to record their second win of the season in as many matches. Caps United travel to Bulawayo for a date with newly promoted Bulawayo Chiefs at Luveve on Sunday. Weekend Fixtures Saturday; Mutare City v Chapungu 1pm (NSS), Black Rhinos v ZPC Kariba (NSS), Harare City v Bulawayo City (Rufaro), FC Platinum v Yadah (Mandava). Sunday: Nichrut v Chicken Inn (Mandava), Herentals v Highlanders (NSS), Triangle v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Gibbo), Dynamos v Shabanie (Rufaro), Bulawayo Chiefs v Caps United (Luveve). All matches kick off at 3pm unless stated.