Defender Lawrence Mhlanga continues to encounter frustrations in his bid to return to action for FC Platinum after the Premier Soccer League (PSL) declined to issue him with a licence until his dispute with Chicken Inn, who claim the player belongs to them, has been resolved by the Zifa Player Status Committee. BY FORTUNE MBELE Chicken Inn contend Mhlanga is still their player, but after a protracted wrangle with FC Platinum, which saw the player failing to kick a ball the whole of last season, Zifa chief executive officer Joseph Mamutse wrote to both clubs advising them that the player was free to join any club of his choice. FC Platinum registered Mhlanga for the Caf Champions League and he played his first official matches for the miners against Angola’s Desportivo de Agosto in the preliminary round of the continental tournament in which the Zvishavane-based side lost both matches. However, the PSL last week wrote to Mamutse, saying they would not register a player to participate in the local league without the blessings of Chicken Inn or the Zifa Player Status Committee. In their correspondence, PSL said Mamutse could not unilaterally clear players without a ruling made by the Zifa Player Status Committee. “We acknowledge receipt of your letter dated March 17 2018 and advise that we will not allow the player to participate in any Castle Lager PSL matches without either a clearance later from his previous club or a clearance certificate from the Zifa Player Status Committee. Our opinion is that your office cannot clear players without the Zifa Player Status Committee verdict. It is our view that all disputed player transfers be referred to the Player Status Committee as soon as possible. The affected players and/or clubs are to foot costs of the hearing,” PSL wrote to Mamutse. Also cited in the correspondence are striker Delic Murimba, formerly with Hwange and now at Triangle, as well as former Chicken Inn player Moses Demera, now at ZPC Kariba.
“Would you kindly request the Zifa Player Status Committee members to convene a meeting to hear the cases of the following: Delic Murimba (ex-Hwange FC), Moses Demera (ex-Chicken Inn) and Lawrence Mhlanga (ex-Chicken Inn),” the PSL added. However, Demera was cleared by Chicken Inn to play for the GameCocks on March 6. Last year, Mhlanga took Chicken Inn to the Labour Court and the matter is still pending. Chicken Inn have alerted the Sports and Recreation Commission expressing their disgust over Zifa’s arbitrary clearance of Lawrence Mhlanga without following proper procedures and the country’s supreme sports body has sought answers from the football governing body over the matter.