COMPLETE Arts Projects Trust Zimbabwe has partnered with Bayimba Foundation of Uganda for an inaugural Walter Mparutsa Theatre Festival set for April 10 to 19 in honour of the late theatre guru who died six years ago. BY WINSTONE ANTONIO The trust’s creative director, Peter Churu, told NewsDay Life & Style that they wanted to share Mparutsa’s life with those who never interacted with him, while reinforcing the values he represented among those he interacted with. “Creation of markets is the motivation for curating the Walter Mparutsa Theatre festival. Walter was passionate about theatre, he practised theatre, taught and mentored many in theatre and, above all, was committed to good quality theatre. We want to share those values with others not so fortunate to have interacted with Walter while reminding his students of those same old values,” he said. Churu said the festival, which will take place in various locations across the country, would be used to develop theatre practitioners’ skills. “The festival is modelled as a touring festival, which kicks off in Mutare and Honde Valley, which is Walter’s home. We then take in various other towns and cities, including Masvingo, Bulawayo, Victoria Falls and Gweru, which is our festival town. We will then end in Harare with theatre performances, film screenings of some of Walter’s films and a fitting tribute to his work and memory,” he said. Churu said artistes from all disciplines of theatre were invited to submit their applications. Mparutsa was involved in numerous theatre related activities. As an activist, he fearlessly battled societal issues through his craft using his art as a platform to address current issues as variant as corruption and HIV and Aids.
The festival is meant to appreciate his immense contribution to the development of theatre. Complete Arts Projects Trust Zimbabwe is an organisation that focuses on development and promotion of theatre in the country by providing platforms for theatre practitioners to improve their craft.