CAPS United president, Farai Jere has welcomed troubled midfielder, Denver Mukamba , into their ranks, describing him as one of the best talents in domestic football who was crying out for conditions that allow him to flourish. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA The Caps United boss said the 2012 Soccer Star of the Year winner, whom they signed on a one year loan deal from rivals Dynamos, needed moral support from everyone to help him get his career back on track. Jere who attended the team’s training session at the National Sports Stadium yesterday, said it was clear Mukamba was yearning for a club that would show him love and pledged that his team, which had helped players like Devon Chafa and Dennis Dauda to rescuscitate their careers before, would help him. “We have always been following developments closely. When we realised Denver’s situation, we made our interests known so we knew we had right of first refusal. We are really excited to have him on board,” hesaid. Jere said they would do everything to ensure the player flourished at Caps United with the help of coach, Lloyd Chitembwe, who has a reputation for bringing out the best from players who appear to be distracted from the game. “We have always given our players support and you all know that. We had players like Devon and Dauda. A lot had been said about those players but we managed as a team to bring those players to their best and you saw what they did. So Denver is no exception. He is a youngster turning 25 this year. What we are going to do as management is to show him love and give him the love that he needs, especially in the view of what has been happening to him in the last few weeks. “We have been following the developments.  The coach (Dynamos coach, Lloyd Mutasa) didn’t like him, the executive (Dynamos) didn’t like him.  He is a young man so we want to show him love, we have coaches that are capable so ours is just to concentrate and give this boy the love he needs. He is one the best talents of his generation.  One of the best talents we have around,” he said. The Caps United boss said they had no problem with the clause that bars Mukamba from playing against Dynamos, as it was a contractual obligation. Dynamos have loaned Mukamba to their rivals on condition that he would not play a part when the two teams meet. “If it is a contractual condition, we have to follow it, am still to have a look at that but if it is that we will have to follow that. We have other players in our team, who are capable of playing against Dynamos. We have a very strong team and very good replacements. “Of course, the season hasn’t started, I believe we have established one of the best teams compared to the team we had in 2016. I am not taking anything away from those boys. This is a very strong team because we have more than one player in each position. “Looking at the position of Denver, for example we have Ronald Chitiyo who can also play in that position when playing Dynamos. We also have Wisdom Mutasa playing as a second striker, it shows we are not starved so as long it is contractual, we have to follow it.” Mukamba ran into problems with Mutasa when he absenteed himself from training, together with defender, Lincoln Zvasiya, in the second half of last season. Reports suggest the two were taking cough mixture for intoxication and while Zvasiya was kicked out of the club, Mukamba was pardoned by the club executive and allowed to carry on. However, his coach remained adamant the player was not in his plans.