DYNAMOS are exploring various options to force Denver Mukamba’s exit from the team after the player lost his battle to stay at the club, following coach Lloyd Mutasa’s refusal to accept him back in the dressing room. BY GARISH PHIRI Mukamba’s manager Gibson Mahachi said he had a meeting yesterday with the DeMbare management, where they discussed two options which include the player going out on loan or the termination of his contract. DeMbare are not in a good financial standing and can barely afford paying off the player for the 18 months left on his contract, as well as the $10 000 they owe him in signing on fees. Mutasa has resisted pressure to take Mukamba back into the team, after their fallout last year over the player’s absence from training towards the end of the season. Some members of the Dynamos management have in the last few months tried to convince Mutasa to change his stance, but the former DeMbare midfielder has stood his ground and Mukamba will have to play his football elsewhere this season. Mukamba has not been attending training since the club started its preparations in January and only made his second appearance at training on Monday where he was allowed to train with the rest of the squad, before he was shut out for Tuesday’s session. “I had a meeting with the Dynamos management earlier this morning, but we did not make any decision on the way forward,” Mahachi said. “We were exploring whether he should be loaned out or we agree on a payment to terminate his contract from the club. The first option that Dynamos would go for is moving him out on loan, because that has no financial obligations. The second option is the termination of contract, which would cost Dynamos a lot of money, so naturally they will go for the first option. I will have a meeting with the player and if he is okay with it we move forward.” DeMbare have been in a dilemma on how to deal with the Mukamba issue, since they cannot afford cancelling his contract. The club management tried to armtwist Mutasa’s but the coach stood firm. The 25-year-old’s relationship with Mutasa broke down when the player absented himself from training, together with defender Lincoln Zvasiya in the second half of last season. Reports suggest the two were taking cough mixtures for intoxication and while Zvasiya was kicked out of the club, Mukamba was pardoned and allowed to carry on. Even after that new lease of life, Mukamba still did not report for training and missed the final matches, where Dynamos were embroiled in a title tussle with FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars. Mutasa indicated that he was fed up with the player and preferred that he leaves the club. But because of his running contract, DeMbare were in a tight spot and “persuaded” Mutasa to work with the midfielder this season. Mukamba being himself fooled everyone into believing he had reformed and would attend training sessions. He missed the first week of training and only appeared in the second, but by then Mutasa’s patience had been stretched to the limit and the coach then said that Mukamba’s DeMbare career was over, at least during his time as head of the technical team.