THE Premier Soccer League (PSL) has put together a salivating fixture programme over the Easter holidays, which is headlined by the Dynamos-Highlanders clash on Monday.
The Glamour Boys had a sluggish start to the campaign after getting off to a dispiriting 1-0 defeat to Chicken Inn in Bulawayo before a dramatic 3-3 draw with Shabanie Mine at Rufaro on Sunday despite having led 3-0 at one stage. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Without the power and influence of Cameroonian international Christian Ntouba Epoupa, who is at loggerheads, with the club management over outstanding signing on fees and allowances, the Glamour Boys have been vulnerable in their last two matches. And as they make the trip to Ngezi Platinum they desperately need their top goal scorer. DeMbare still have sad memories of their last visit to the Baobab where they lost 2-0, a match, which observers believe denied them the championship last term despite having won 3-2 in the reverse fixture at Rufaro. Ngezi Platinum have also proved difficult opponents at their home ground, Baobab Stadium where they have not lost since Tonderai Ndiraya took over. And Dynamos will have to roll up their sleeves if they are to secure three points in Ngezi. Apart from Ngezi, they have Bulawayo giants Highlanders to grapple with. Bosso have had a perfect start to the campaign registering identical 2-0 wins against Triangle and Herentals in their last two matches. Madinda Ndlovu, appears to have inculcated a winning culture in the team. They remain the only club among the Big Three that has not dropped points and sparks are certainly going to fly on Monday. City rivals Caps United also have struggled after being held to a goalless draw against Harare City before coming back from behind to settle for a share of the spoils in the 2-2 draw against Bulawayo Chiefs on Sunday. The Green Machine, host defending champions, FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium on Thursday and then clash against army side, Black Rhinos on Sunday at the same venue. Lloyd Chitembwe’s men desperately need maximum points to get back on track in their bid to win the championship this term, after surrendering it to FC Platinum last season. On Good Friday, Highlanders tackle Triangle at Barbourfields Stadium, while Shabanie Mine host Nichruit at Mandava Stadium the same day. FC Platinum, who benefited from the failure by ZPC Kariba to turn up for their opening match of the campaign after they were awarded three points on a 3-0 scoreline also have a tricky clash against Bulawayo City at Mandava Stadium on Easter Monday. Lizwe Sweswe’s men need a win to maintain a 100% start to the campaign after dismissing Yadah FC 2-0 at the weekend. Fixtures Thursday: Chicken Inn v Mutare City (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum v Dynamos (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Herentals (Nyamhunga), Yadah FC v Black Rhinos (Rufaro), Bulawayo City v Bulawayo Chiefs (B/F), Chapungu v Harare City (Ascot),  Caps United v FC Platinum (NSS) Friday: Highlanders v Triangle (BF), Shabanie v Nichruit (Mandava) Sunday: Herentals v Yadah FC (Rufaro), Bulawayo Chiefs v Chapungu (Luveve), Black Rhinos v Caps United (NSS) Monday: FC Platinum v Bulawayo City v (Mandava), Mutare City v  Harare City (NSS),  Nichruit v Ngezi Platinum (Ascot), Dynamos v Highlanders (Rufaro), Triangle v ZPC Kariba (Gibbo Stadium), Chicken Inn v Shabanie Mine (Luveve)