DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa has said that his charges are ready for the showdown against bogey side Chicken Inn in their 2018 Castle Lager Premiership opener at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Although Mutasa acknowledged it would be a tough encounter, with his charges having struggled against the Bulawayo side until they picked four points against them, he still expects success. “Chicken Inn have been our bogey side and I know it will be a tough encounter, but we are ready for the challenge. It’s a very important game, where what we have been doing in our preseason preparations will be reflected. We have done our homework and are looking forward to the match,” said Mutasa. Dynamos were handed back-to-back defeats by Chicken Inn in 2016, losing 3-0 in Bulawayo in the first encounter before suffering a 2-3 defeat at home. However, last term they managed to overcome the Gamecocks 1-0 with the other encounter ending goalless last season. With Joey Antipas who won the league championship with the Bulawayo side now back in charge after a stint in South Africa, it points to a potentially explosive encounter. Dynamos declared they want to do better than last season, where they finished as runners up to FC Platinum and these are the matches that test their resolve. But they face the prospect of playing without their top marksman Christian Ntouba Epoupa, who is fighting with the club management as he tries to recover his outstanding dues amounting to $16 000 from signing on fees as well as salaries and allowances. Mutasa said they were hoping the issue would be resolved before they embark on the trip to Bulawayo. “He has been training and is looking sharp. We are just praying that his issue with management will be resolved before we go to Bulawayo,”said Mutasa. Epoupa was influential in Dynamos championship bid last term, contributing 12 goals to the cause. Mutasa also said they were happy with former Harare City striker Kuda Kumwala, whom they have asked the club executive to sign. “We have always known Kuda and judging from what we have seen at training, we are happy with him. We would want him to be part and parcel of this squad and it’s now left to the executive to agree terms with the player,” said Mutasa The Dynamos gaffer said apart from Emmanuel Mandiranga and Peace Makaha, who were still nursing injuries everyone was fit and ready for the match. Mutasa, like he did last term, has assembled a new look squad with a number of youth players set to play a big part in the championship bid. Weekend fixtures Saturday: Bulawayo City v Chapungu (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum v Herentals (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (National Sports Stadium), Nichrut FC v Mutare City (Mandava), Yadah FC v Bulawayo Chiefs (Rufaro), Chicken Inn v Dynamos (Barbourfields), Sunday: Highlanders v Black Rhinos (Barbourfields), Shabanie Mine v Triangle (Mandava), Caps United v Harare City (National Sports Stadium)