FORMER champions Caps United were held by promoted Bulawayo Chiefs on a day they played clad in NetOne orange T-shirts after a clash of kits, something that left the Green Machine coach, Lloyd Chitembwe seething. BY FORTUNE MBELE Bulawayo Chiefs . . . (2) 2
Caps United . . . . . . . (1) 2 The match was delayed by half an hour, as Caps looked for an alternative kit until they settled for their training T-shirts. United did not travel with an away kit, as their new uniforms for the 2018 season from Asian suppliers Roar are not yet in the country. Chitembwe was disappointed with the clashing kits scenario and said he would seek audience with his bosses over the matter. “This is something that should not happen at this level of the game. Administratively, we were found wanting. We were culpable and I want to seek answers from the top hierarchy,” he said. Their centre-back, Justice Jangano was sent off in the 75th minute for a second bookable offence for rough play. Caps United were a pale shadow of themselves and were down as early as the eighth minute through a spectacular header by Kundishora Chakanyuka from an cross by Farau Matare. Their response to the early set back was quick though, as John Zhuwawu scored after capitalising on a defensive mistake by Bulawayo Chiefs. Gracious Muleya got the second goal for Chiefs in the 32nd minute from a Moses Majika corner kick. It was Caps United, who came back stronger after the break, attacking Chiefs from all angles and that pressure earned them a penalty kick in the 62nd minute when Muleya was adjudged to have fouled Simba Nhivi. Joel Ngodzo converted to restore parity once again. Dynamos outcast, Denver Mukamba, loaned to United, played his first game for Caps United coming in for Nhivi in the in the 72nd minute. Bulawayo Chiefs coach, Garthly Chipuka said it was two points lost, as he felt his side played better than their opponent. “Its a strategy that maybe failed because we didn’t defend deep and conceded that penalty and don’t forget we were playing Caps United. It’s two points lost. We were on top of the game,” he said. Chitembwe said: “I thought it was a good game of football. I am very happy with the progress. Of the team. They showed more aggression in the first half.”
Teams: Bulawayo Chiefs: K Moyo, M Mkolo, S Nyahwa (T Mandizadza, 78′), P Moyo, L Sithole, T Muzuva, G Muleya, P Chikwende, F Matare (A Musiyiwa, 66′), K Chakanyuka (D Chivandire, 89′), M Majika Caps United: P Chigumba, K Nyamupfukudza (C Munzabwa, 42′), V Musarurwa, J Jangano (red card, 75′), S Makatuka, C Kamhapa, M Ncube (P Moyo 43′), S Nhivi (D Mukamba, 72′), J Ngodzo, J Zhuwawu, B Muzondiwa