DEFENDER Stephen Makatuka has taken over the captain’s armband ahead of Caps United’s 2018 Castle Lager Premier League opener against Harare City, following the injury of Hardlife Zvirekwi in a car accident at the weekend. BY GARISH PHIRI Coach Lloyd Chitembwe yesterday said that they had given the armband to Makatuka who was captain before. Another defender, Justice Jangano has been named as vice-captain, at least for the match against Harare City at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. “Steven Makatuka will be the captain in the match against Harare City while Justice Jangano will be the vice-captain and Carlton Mudzambwa will also be one of the leaders” Chitembwe said. Zvirekwi lost his hand following the accident and is unlikely to return to the game. The former Zimbabwe national team right back, led Caps United to their first league championship in a decade in 2016. He also shepherded the squad to the Group stage of the Caf Champions League, where they floored seasoned African Champions TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo and Zamalek of Egypt. Ahead of their match against Harare City, Chitembwe said that they will be looking to make a positive start to the campaign and will not underestimate any team. “We are preparing well ahead of the start of the league programme and we will be looking to be positive from the start,” he said. The Green Machine have since declared that they want to reclaim the league title this term after finishing fifth in a season where they were burdened by the participation in the continental competition. They have brought in a number of new players with the return of defender Method Mwanjali and striker Simba Nhivi, while they also brought in Dynamos outcast Denver Mukamba among a host of new acquisitions. They also benefitted from the fall of How Mine where they took on board Praise Tonha, Peter Moyo, Milton Ncube and goalkeeper Munyaradzi Diya. Caps United take on a Harare City side that only returned to the topflight weeks ago following the withdrawal of How Mine. Harare City had been relegated to Division One and were preparing for life in the lower league. After accepting the offer from the league to fill in the void left by How Mine, they rushed into the market and acquired the services of defender Elisha Muroiwa and stirker Kuda Musharu.