AFTER enduring two medical operations, renowned author, Charles Mungoshi, last week took the opportunity to reconnect with his fans and fellow authors at a three-day book signing event of his latest release, Branching Streams Flow in the Dark, in Harare. BY ANESU MUSHAWATU Speaking at the event, which began on Tuesday, Mungoshi’s wife Jesesi, a renowned actress said the event was part of her husband’s therapeutic process and a way of reconnecting with his fans. “We organised this book event as part of his physiotherapy. By signing books, he will be practising to use his hands and, most importantly, to get him out of the house so he can reconnect with his fellow authors and his fans,” she said. Jesesi recalled how meeting fellow authors — Albert Nyathi and Virginia Phiri — lit up Mungoshi’s face. “On Tuesday, he was just sitting here quietly, but when Albert Nyathi, Virginia Phiri and children from Avondale School came, his face brightened and we could see that he was happy,” she said. She said plans were underway to publish a children’s book by the end of the year. “We have since been looking for a few pages of a children’s book and we are working towards publishing it after completion,” she said. Three of his children attended the event. Charles Jnr said the response was pleasing despite its lack of publicity. “We have seen a good response so far, especially considering that the event was not well publicised and we will try to organise another book signing later in April,” he said. Charles Jnr expressed the family’s appreciation to people, who recognised and honoured the trailblazing author’s work. One of Mungoshi’s fans, Tawanda Kajawu, who attended the book signing, said he found the award-winning author’s works inspirational. “As Africans, we do not often express ourselves in writing but Mungoshi clearly does. He is my greatest inspiration in my journey to master the art of writing,” he said.
Jesesi said she was working on a full-length film, Makunun’unu Maodzamoyo, based on Mungoshi’s first published novel of the same name. The film was scripted and directed by her son, Farai, and features contemporary musician Jah Prayzah and Nothando
Nobengula.