ZIMBABWE’S cryptocurrency exchange, Golix, is set to attend the fourth annual Blockchain Africa conference to be held in Johannesburg, South Africa, on Thursday to discuss opportunities, challenges and exciting possibilities in innovation. BY MTHANDAZO NYONI This will be Golix’s second appearance at the exclusive conference, following a presentation delivered at the 2016 edition by the company’s chief executive officer, Tawanda Kembo. In a statement yesterday, Golix director of communications, Nhlalwenhle Ngwenya, said the two-day conference brings together a diverse range of global experts who “discuss the opportunities, challenges and exciting possibilities in innovation and disruptions that can be brought to Africa using blockchain technology.” Golix’s head of special projects, William Chui, said they were attending the conference to get perspectives on how Africa and International Blockchain experts were harnessing the blockchain for daily use. “For example, how the technology can be used in making local and international payments and mostly how ordinary people can find financial autonomy, through cryptocurrencies. In all this, our focus is on growing into a leading African cryptocurrency exchange platform,” he said. Head of growth, Panashe Tapera, said the conference will be more of an exchange programme with different cryptocurrencies platforms. “There will be several local and international cryptocurrencies exchanges like luno, Bitsure, Centbee, and Telecoin, that will be part of the two day conference. Our approach as a start-up is to see how they have managed to successfully implement their exchanges, what problems they have faced and overcome in the process. Taking that to perspective, we will have an even better understanding of cryptocurrencies platforms,” he said. This year’s key speakers will be Andrew Keys (USA) – co-founder of ConsenSys Capital and former head of global business development at ConsenSys; Diego Gutiérrez Zaldívar (Argentina) – chief executive officer and co-founder of RSK Labs (Rootstock); Henri Arslanian (China) – PwC fintech and regtech leader for China/Hong Kong; and Chris Hamilton (South Africa) – chief executive officer of BankservAfrica. Last year, the conference was also held in Johannesburg with 330 attendees from Kenya, Nigeria, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Cameroon, South Africa, the US, the UK, Sweden, Russia, India, the Netherlands and Brazil.