FORMER Highlanders striker Ralph Matema has resurfaced at Yadah FC after signing a contract with the Walter Magaya-financed team. BY HENRY MHARA The veteran striker was one of the senior players released from the club by new Bosso coach Madinda Ndlovu when he took over a few months ago, alongside the likes of Eric Mudzingwa and Simon Munawa. Ndlovu has opted to groom young players and promote them into the senior team, instead of recycling the old horses. While the other “outcasts” chose to remain in Bulawayo where they have joined teams from the City of Kings, the former Orlando Pirates hitman Matema, has decided to move to the capital. Yadah FC chief executive officer Admire Mango confirmed that the striker was one of the nine new players that they have signed to strengthen their squad. “We are still a young team with very young squad so we decided to sign some senior players like Ralph Matema to provide guidance. We want to do well in the new season, but we will not put pressure on the team by setting unrealistic targets. This is our second season in the league, so it’s still a learning process for us,” said Mango. Matema, 35, will try to fill the shoes left by Rodreck Mutuma, who has since left the club. Other notable names on the list of the new arrivals include former Dynamos midfielder Cliff Sekete and former How Mine and Ajax Cape Town striker Simba Sithole.
Sekete had taken a sabbatical from professional football since leaving DeMbare in a huff some few years back. Sithole, was reportedly playing his football in Botswana last season, before he decided to retrace his footsteps back home this year. Former Black Rhinos wingback Gift Mugabe and Stephen Chimusoro have also joined. Yadah FC 2018 squad Leeroy Mavhunga, Ralph Matema, Simba Sithole, Cliff Sekete, Stephen Chimusoro, Samuel Mafukidze, Bheki Ncube, Munya Zengeni, Milton Makopa, Gift Mugabe, Paulo Borges, Wilson Chakanyuka, Brian Chikwenya, Regis Dongo, Johannes Sibanda, Willard Kalongonda, Jimmy Dzingai, Byron Madzokere, Brian Mapfumo, Ariel Makopa, Munyaradzi Chiwara, Leroy Murape, Jonah Chitereki, Denzel Savanhu, Morris Musiyakuvi