UPCOMING dancehall artiste, Georgina Mutambariko — known as Ice Queen in music circles — said she has had to spurn sexual advances from male producers as she battled to release her music. BY TAFADZWA KACHIKO Ice Queen told NewsDay Life & Style that several producers have asked her for sexual favours before they could produce her debut album Tariro neNyasha, which features Trevor Dongo and Boom Berto of the Munodonhedza Musika fame. “I came across such producers, who asked for sexual favours but I had to say goodbye (to them). I have never allowed anyone to take advantage of me to get my music recorded,” she said. “I am here because I remained principled, hardworking and the support from my manager Jirvaldo. I don’t believe letting my body be abused will make me famous in the industry, but hard work and faith in God will take me far.” Mutambariko said singing dancehall music did not mean she was a woman of easy virtue. She said a few rotten apples in the genre have seen all the musicians painted with the same brush yet many of them produced music with positive messages, adding that the music was not about drugs, as many chanters led clean lifestyles. “People should not judge artistes by genres, but listen and understand the message or teachings in their songs. I am a very proud dancehall singer and Christian. I don’t do drugs, so people should not merely judge us by our genres,” Mutambariko said. She said contrary to the wrong perception that dancehall only appealed to ghetto youth, her music had found takers among different age groups. “My album gives edutainment. Hupenyu teaches people to never give up and Change Your Ways, which I did with Trevor, calls on them to have forgiving hearts,” Mutambariko said. The self-proclaimed First Lady weMangoma said collaborating Dongo was a dream that came true. “I started recording the album last year at Mount Zion and Greengage Studios and released it on Monday last week. Working with Trevor was such a great experience. I have always wanted to collaborate with well-known artistes like him so it’s a dream that came true. I am yet to finish my video with him,” she said. Mutambariko started her music journey in 2016 when she recorded a string of singles. Other tracks on the album named are Dhanyero, Sorry, Ndanyadzisa, Makaomesa Musoro, Uri Imwe Type, Unogumbura, Zvaunondiita featuring Boom Berto and Mudiwa Dzikama featuring McNeils.