The 2018 racing season could not have started off better for Axcil Jefferies and his new German teammate, Carrie Shriener. by sports reporter After a very successful debut year in GT Racing in 2017, where  Jefferies won the Lamborghini Super Trofeo Middle East Championship, second in The European Championship and second in World Finals (all in the PRO Category), Axcil took on the challenge of partnering with an AM driver for the Pro/Am championship to retain the title in the pro-am rating of the Lamborghini super Trofeo middle east. Things didn’t all go to plan as Jefferies and Shriener suffered collisions from behind in the first corners of their only second race, which dropped them back to last position and they had to fight and haul themselves up through the fields to get on to the podiums. “I have had an amazing start to my 2018 campaign so far, qualifying on Pole, breaking lap records, setting fastest race laps and ultimately winning the Championship again. Working with Carrie has been a pleasure and she has really progressed well and improved every lap she has driven. I am proud to have been part of her development as a driver and am sure she is destined for great things,” Jefferies said. “Most importantly, I am very grateful for the opportunity and belief that Franz Konrad has had in me. We clicked straightaway as a team, my working relationship with the engineer and mechanics has been top class, which made it even more of a pleasure to be part of this team. I am really excited and looking forward to a positive year ahead and will announce our plans soon. Stay tuned,” he added. With five podiums and three first places, Jefferies and Shriener can go into their European Championships with confidence and push for greater achievements. After the two unfortunate incidents on the first corners, the championship fight went into the last race where they had to win and hope their main title rivals Altoe and Soleiri of Antonelli Motorsport did not finish fourth or better. The Konrad duo did their part by driving their hearts out to win and fortunately for them, Altoe and Soleiri only managed to finish fifth. On another note, the Jefferies camp were happy to have finally received recognition by Zimbabwe MotorSport Federation and Jefferies being awarded with national colours for his contribution to motorsport.