MDC-T president, Nelson Chamisa yesterday commended the government for “properly” handling the funeral of his predecessor, the late Morgan Tsvangirai.
Chamisa made the remarks in Parliament, where he described himself as “the anointed successor” and labelled Zanu PF as the alternative government to the MDC-T, attracting jeers from ruling party MPs. BY VENERANDA LANGA “The death of the former Prime Minister and MDC-T leader happened suddenly and the manner in which it was handled by the alternative government to the MDC-T, which I am now leading was done well,” he said. “I would like to thank Parliament and the government for handling the funeral in a non-partisan manner, with every political party acknowledging that Tsvangirai did work for the country. “We saw President Emmerson Mnangagwa, his deputy, Constantino Chiwenga and Zanu PF secretary for information, Simon Khaya Moyo, rendering their assistance to bring his body back home and also providing helicopters.” Chamisa said the unity shown during Tsvangirai’s funeral must continue. “As a leader, who was given the baton in the MDC-T, we hope that, as we move forward, we can differ in ideology, but work peacefully together,” he said to the applause of his party members. But Mazowe South MP Fortune Chasi (Zanu PF) stood up to attack the MDC-T’s violent behaviour exhibited during Tsvangirai’s funeral. “I think everyone in the country acknowledged that Tsvangirai was a leader of good note, but the story will not be complete without making reference to the violence that ensured. It will be remiss of this House if we do not abhor the treatment, which was given to some leaders of the opposition, in particular party deputy president, Thokozani Khupe and the violence that later took place in Bulawayo,” Chasi said before Speaker of the National Assembly, Jacob Mudenda interjected and ordered MPs to behave. “We are here to build a peaceful nation, so I accept the expression of gratitude by Chamisa and Chasi’s observations,” he said. Later, Zvishavane Ngezi MP John Holder (Zanu PF) asked Higher Education minister Among Murwira to explain the action he would take to quell disturbances, which he alleged were being plotted by the Zimbabwe National Students’ Union (Zinasu) to ensure Chamisa wins the elections. Murwira said he had not received any official information from Zinasu about the issue.