CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe believes striker Denver Mukamba will regain his form following the attacker’s mini cameo role in their 2-all draw against Bulawayo Chiefs on Sunday. BY FORTUNE MBELE Mukamba (25) is on loan after a fall-out with Dynamos gaffer Lloyd Mutasa over aberrant behaviour and Chitembwe has taken it upon himself to reform the former Soccer Star of the Year. Mukamba played his first league game for Caps United after replacing Simbarashe Nhivi in the last 20 minutes of the game and Chitembwe has faith that Mukamba will return to his former self. “If you look at Denver; he is one player who has so much in him. He is one hell of a good player with so much in his locker. I just want to manage his fitness levels. He is not at a level where we can expect a lot from him. We are introducing him gradually just to gain much more important match-related fitness and just 20 minutes under his belt today (Sunday) and next week we will give him more and we build him on and thrust him in the eventual team that I personally think will be a very a good team this season,” Chitembwe said. The Green Machine mentor said he was happy with the progress the striker has made so far. “I am one kind of a coach who believes in making a positive change to players and Denver is no exception. I have worked with players who have been labelled as incorrigible, but at the end of the day one must be seen to making that positive change in another’s life and to me that is success and I am happy with those players that I have worked with and have listened to my advice. I am sure Denver is one kind of a boy who is on the right track. I have seen his attitude at training; he has the attitude of a winner and wants to be somewhere. I give credit to him for now because he has just responded positively to what I expected from him,” Chitembwe said. Mukamba could become Chitembwe’s answer to strike a deadly combination with Brian Muzondiwa and John Zhuwawu upfront for the Green Machine, who are yet to pick maximum points in the first two games. They were held by Harare City in the first game at the National Sports Stadium and twice came back from behind to settle for a draw against new Premiership boys Bulawayo Chiefs, with goals from Zhuwawu and a penalty by Joel Ngodzo.