CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe believes he has assembled a strong squad that can compete in his bid to reclaim the championship this term. BY GARISH PHIRI Speaking to reporters soon after the team’s training session at the National Sports Stadium yesterday, Chitembwe who has previously stated his desire to bag the league title once again after lifting in 2016, spoke glowingly about Denver Mukamba. The former Dynamos midfielder held his first training session with the Green Machine yesterday after his one year loan deal was sealed on Tuesday. Other notable new acquisitions that took part in training were former How Mine left back Milton Ncube and the pair of Dennis Dauda and Simba Nhivi who are rejoining the club. “He (Denver) is an quality player and as coaches looking at him, you can’t really doubt his capabilities. What is more important is when you look at what has been happening to him you see a troubled soul, a soul that has been lacking a bit of love and am sure we are here to provide that so that he gets to the level that we know he is capable of reaching,” Chitembwe said. “Ncube is also one player I have personally admired and am sure he is a perfect fit and he is going to give us balance more on the left side and it’s good to have such kind of player with the experience and the knowledge he has acquired. He is of great value to the team.” Dauda, who was at Yadah FC, signed his contract yesterday to return to the club he left in a huff last season. “He is here because we believe in his qualities and abilities and there is nothing that is going to change.” Chitembwe is preaching equality in his squad and does not view any player more of less important that the other. The big question, though, remains on the future of Rodrick Mutuma who is not part of the squad as he is still undergoing assessment by the coach. The Yadah FC striker is, however, highly likely to be part of the squad. “Rodrick is still on assessment fitness level and in terms of his abilities he is one of the best finishers around  and we want to make sure he is in the right direction, right state of mind, physical shape and am sure we will work on that and obviously work on him” Caps United 2018 Squad Munyaradzi Diya, Chris Mverechena, Prosper Chigumba, Valentine Musarurwa,  Dennis Dauda Justice Jangano, Stephen Makatuka, Godwin Goliath, Method Mwanjali, Carlton Munzabwa, Kudzai Nyamupfukudza, Dominic Mukandi, Josta Ngodzo, Hardlife Zvirekwi, Milton Ncube, Cabby Kamhapa, Praise Tonha, Ronald Chitiyo, John Zhuwawo, Brain Muzondiwa, Wisdom Mutasa, Tony Fugo, Denver Mukamba,  Simba Nhivi.