COSTA Nhamoinesu makes a return to the Warriors fold, as he has been included in the squad that will participate in a four-nation tournament in Zambia later this month.
Zimbabwe have been invited to the tournament, which includes the hosts, South Africa and Angola. BY HENRY MHARA The official list of the Warriors’ squad for the tournament to be played from March 21 to 24 is yet to be released, but NewsDay Weekender Sport has gathered that the Czech Republic-based Nhamoinesu has been recalled. His club Sparta Praha confirmed on their official website that their player was heading to Harare for the tournament. “Costa Nhamoinesu, called up to Zimbabwe national team for a four-nation tournament scheduled from March 21 to 24 in Zambia,” Sparta announced. “Other participating teams are Angola, South Africa and hosts Zambia.” The defender last played for the Warriors at the 2017 January Afcon finals in Gabon, with injuries ruling him out of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier against Liberia in April at the National Sports Stadium. He also missed the Warriors’ two friendly matches against Lesotho and Namibia late last year. Midfielder, Gerald Takwara has also been called, with his South African club, Ajax Cape Town yesterday confirming that they had received a letter of request from Zifa. Sources told NewsDay Weekender Sport yesterday that coach Sunday Chidzambga had kept the core of the team that played in the last two friendly matches. However, skipper Knowledge Musona and Kuda Mahachi are set to miss the tournament due to injuries. Sources said Farai Munetsi and Butholezwe Ncube of Orlando Pirates and Amazulu, respectively, have received their first national team call ups having impressed for their South African teams. Liberty Chakoroma, Jimmy Dzingai, Peter Muduhwa, Devine Lunga, goalkeeper Takabva Mawaya and Praise Tonha are the only locals in the team. The teams are using to the tournament to prepare for the 2019 Afcon qualifiers set for later this year.