Shabanie Mine put their problems behind them to account for Triangle in an exciting  Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie played at Mandava Stadium yesterday. BY TERRY MADYAUTA SHABANIE MINE…(0)1
TRIANGLE FC……….(0) The Chinda Boys scored their only goal on the 55th minute when David Temwanjira calmly slotted a low shot past a diving Ronald Mudimu after a quick break and it was all they needed to get the perfect start they sought. Shabanie coach Takesure Chiragwi was pleased that his side had bagged all points. “I am happy that our game plan worked very well today” he said. “The team was a little jittery in the opening exchanges, but after the goal, I could see confidence coming back.  Getting maximum points on the first game of the season means a lot to us.” His counterpart Taurai Mangwiro was disappointed by his side’s performance. “Obviously, any coach would be disappointed with this. We needed these points so badly, especially on the first game, but we failed,” Mangwiro said. “We did everything to get a goal or two, but nothing materialised. We created chances on a number of occasions, but we failed to hit the nets.” The visitors to their credit withstood a lot of pressure in the first half, but were undone by a piece of brilliance. Shabanie could have scored in the first 10 minutes had they capitalised on a  miscommunication between centre backs Guthrie Zhokinyu and Derwin Phiri, but new recruit McDonald Makuwe missed the target with the goal keeper at his mercy. Moments later, Amon Kambanje saw his long-range shot being parried away by Mudimu. Triangle could have equalised on the 65th minute when their starman Lameck Nhamo weaved past two Shabanie defenders, but his effort was blocked by Maliselo Ali. Teams Shabanie Mine: Moyo P, Manyende L, Maliselo A, Mukundu B, Nyabinde J, Chigede T, Murumi T( Kahuni W, 83′), Makuwe D( Mupumha O, 75′), Mupumha T( Kawayuja E, 90′), Temwanjira D, Kambanje A Triangle: Mudimu R, Phiri D( Dzingai C 83), Mhlanga R, Zhokinyu G, Chigwida K, Mavhunga T, Kawondera R, Bamusi P, Dhuwa C, Manhanga P( Denias C, 51′), Lameck N