CAPS United midfielder Ronald “Rooney” Chitiyo (pictured) is expected to return to action as early as next week after a lengthy period on the sidelines due to injuries sustained in a car accident. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Chitiyo has been under rehabilitation since the team started pre-season training and subsequently missed the club’s opening two matches of the campaign against Harare City and Bulawayo Chiefs, which ended in draws. He had been given a separate training regime under the management of the medical team. Team doctor Nick Munyonga revealed yesterday that Chitiyo was ready to begin training with the rest of the team. “I have released Chitiyo for full training. He is now ready to start training with the rest of the team,” Munyonga said. The Caps United playmaker was a huge influence, as Makepekepe won the championship in 2016 as well as in the African Champions League campaign, where they reached the group stage of the tournament for the first time in the club’s history. His performances earned him a move to Tunisia, where he had a short stint with Club Sfax before he decided to terminate his contract over failure to honour contractual obligations. With Caps United having struggled in the opening matches of the campaign, they were hoping for his early return to the field. Chitiyo is set to miss the Easter programme, where Caps United will play FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow before the clash against Black Rhinos on Sunday at the same venue. Already, fellow midfielder Denver Mukamba, who joined on loan from Dynamos, has played a part after he was given a run of 20 minutes in the weekend 2-2 draw against Bulawayo Chiefs. Mukamba had also been given  a separate training regime, as he had a lot of some catch up to do in terms of fitness levels. Caps United coach Lloyd Chitembwe has been impressed by his performance and commitment thus far. “I am sure Denver is one kind of a boy who is on the right track. I have seen his attitude at training. He has the attitude of a winner and wants to be somewhere. I give credit to him for now because he has just responded positively to what I expected from him,” Chitembwe said.