Warriors forward Talent Chawapiwa is confident that they will collect maximum points in this weekend’s Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier against Congo Brazzaville.
The squad kicked off their preparations with an afternoon training session at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. By Garish Phiri Chawapiwa has been enjoying good form for his club South African Baroka this season and the Warriors technical team, led by Sunday Chidzambga, will be hoping that he carries it into the national team. The speedy winger acknowledged that they faced a tough match considering that they will be playing away from home, but added that they had the capacity to go there and get a result. “It’s going to be a tough game because we are playing away from home. They (Congo) are going to throw everything to us. We are just going there to collect points. Qualifying to the finals becomes easier when you collect points away. If you collect points away from home, the home matches become much easier as there would be less pressure,” Chawapiwa said. He said Congo would not be an easy opponent, as they have a strong squad. “It’s going to be tough, they have experienced players in their team. But we also have a lot of experience in our squad and we will just focus on collecting points. We just have to apply the coaches’ tactics and we just have to give 100% effort,” Chawapiwa said. On the other hand, George Chigova, who emerged hero of the last Cosafa Castle Cup that was won by Zimbabwe, said the team was confident of taking all three points. “The guys are ready to do the job and we will come back with the three points,” he said. “Both teams are good so for us we are just hopeful we take the form of the first game into this game and maintain our place at the top of the Group. We hope we will build on the victory from Liberia.” Chigova also wants to take his Cosafa Cup form into the Afcon qualifiers. “It was good for me to help the country lift the Cosafa. I hope I will take the form into the next game. I have to continue working hard and I know it’s a different ball game. We know it will be tough in Congo, but we just want everyone selected to put in their best shift on the day,” he said. The prolific goalie said that injuries that have ravaged the Warriors, who will miss Costa Nhamoinesu, Marvelous Nakamba and Ovidy Karuru, would not be a big factor, as there are equally good players available for the coaches. “That’s how football is, injuries come. So for us we are preparing with the guys that are there, they will come in and do a job for us. The guys that are coming in have a chance and they should grab it by playing well in this match,” he said.