ELVIS “Bomber” Moyo is confident of landing a knockout blow to tough Ukrainian opponent Maksym Pedyura when the two heavyweight boxers meet in the ring at the Harare City Sports Centre tonight. BY HENRY MHARA The South African-based Bomber is favourite to defend his World Boxing Federation Africa heavyweight title, and has a reputation to uphold in front of his home crowd, having successfully predicted the outcome of his last three fights in the country. More importantly, the Bomber wants this victory desperately to enhance his reputation and enable him to attract international boxing superstars. Last time, he publicly called fellow countryman Derick Chisora for a fight, after beating Congolese Knife Didier, but the British-based star turned down the offer, claiming that the Bomber is a “nonentity”. Speaking to the Press after the weigh-in yesterday, a relaxed Bomber expressed confidence of extending his flawless record in front of his supporters, where he has vanquished all his opponents. “I’m always excited to be here. The guy (Pedyura) is a bit experienced, that is what we are looking for. I’m hoping he can bring a good challenge, but I’m planning to stop him. The stronger he comes the better I can rate myself. I’m going international, so this is my first step into Europe,” Bomber said. “I have already concluded that I will drop him, but the most important thing is to put up a good show. I expect him to resist, because sometimes a boxer looks tough before you hit him with a punch. Some when you hit him he starts running and it turns into a miserable fight. I would want him to fight and punch back like I always ask from my opponents, so that he can at least bring the best in me. That is what the fans want to see,” he added. Standing at a staggering 194cm, Pedyura’s height could provide a huge challenge for the Bomber, who is 8cm shorter. Videos also show that the European is very quick and possesses unbelievable footwork. That does not worry the Zimbabwean a bit. “That doesn’t worry me. He is taller but it works two ways, because in my world he becomes an easy target. I cannot miss him. Every punch I throw I’m going to land it, and land it hard. I know how to chop a tall tree. I fought Bernard (Adie), who I think moves better than this guy, but I beat him just in four rounds,” Bomber said. Pedyura is a man of  few words who  prefers to do much of the talking in the ring. Speaking through a translator, he said: “I’m ready for the fight and I hope it would be a good show. We have seen his (Moyo) videos and he is not a bad man. But we will see what he can do in the ring tomorrow because I came well prepared. The plan is to knock him. We are enjoying our stay here, very friendly people around and you will see us again in this country.” The Moyo-Pedyura fight is the highlight of an interesting fight card, which will also see local favourite Tinashe “Chairman” Madziwana taking on Ronald “Captain” Tamani for the now revived and Zimbabwe Super Bantamweight title in the main event. The other title fight is a women’s bout between Monalisa Sibanda and Chiedza Homakoma for the lightweight title. The remainder of the bill is completed by an interesting super middleweight bout between Wesley McDade and Chris Bobo from the DR Congo, as well as crowd favourite and reigning WBF African Cruiserweight champion Chamunorwa “Sting” Gondarena, who takes on Djokito Sakuji from the DRC in a non-title bout over 8 rounds.
Singer Ammara Brown would provide entertainment at the event, that is being promoted by Kalakoda Promotions and Kwesé Sport.