UNITED States dancer, Reese Nance — popularly known as Gshytt — who landed in the country on Monday for a familiarisation tour yesterday said he was passionate about reaching out to the underprivileged. BY ANESU MUSHAWATU A former dancer with some of America’s biggest RnB names such as Beyoncé, Rihanna and Ciara, said he was set to collaborate with the local band, Jairos Jiri Vibes.
“The Jairos Jiri project is special for me, probably the most heartfelt project in terms of music that I have ever done. Working with these kids and seeing how the power of music can bring in differences, I am learning a lot from these kids as much as they are learning from me. We are doing a song called Musikana Akanaka with these youngsters,” he said. Gshytt said coming to Zimbabwe was a dream come true because he had always wanted to be in Africa. “I am receiving a lot of positive responses both here in Zimbabwe and  back home,” he said. Gshytt said he had done a lot of acting and dance work over the last 10 years and was also keen to work with a number of local musicians apart from the charity initiatives. “I’ll be working with local artistes including Tamy, giving back to the community such as the female school we are meeting to donate sanitarywear and collaborating with local artistes such as the Jairos Jiri Vibes,” he said. Gshytt also spoke about his previous collaboration with top local music video producer Vusa Blaqs on the video of the track Vibe, following the video shoot done in Vumba mountains, Mutare and Headlands between January 3 and 5 this year. “I wanted to show the positive side of Africa. We wanted something unique and different and with Blacs by my side, he helped me come up with something brilliant,” he said.
“The music we made here is unique from the usual flashy cars and women and flashing money. This is deep and natural. My experience with Tamy was amazing,” the dancer who has released 32 songs said. The Los Angeles native said he was in the country for the second time and felt at home.