THE Nelson Chamisa-led MDC-T has fired 17 Bulawayo provincial executive members, in a fresh purge targeting officials aligned to axed deputy president, Thokozani Khupe’s faction. BY SILAS NKALA Provincial spokesperson Felix Magalela Sibanda confirmed the development in a statement, accusing the axed officials of snubbing party programmes, among other allegations. “On March 25, the provincial executive fired some errant MDC-T members from the party. Those who are either MPs or councillors will be recalled from Parliament or council, whatever the case maybe,” he said. “They were fired primarily for putting the party into disrepute and disregarding national council resolutions, failure to attend party meetings and programmes. Disciplinary and code of conduct and regulations, section (2,d,f,g,I,k,q,s, and t) on page 87 to 88 of the MDC-T constitution as amended on the October 31 to November 1, 2014, at the City Sports Centre, Harare.” The purge comes a few days after the MDC-T national council fired Khupe, former national organising secretary, Abednico Bhebhe and former national spokesperson, Obert Gutu, for refusing to recognise Chamisa’s appointment as substantive party leader following the death of its founder, Morgan Tsvangirai in February this year. The axed officials include provincial secretary Nomvula Mguni, women’s assembly chairperson, Tamani Moyo, local government secretary, Aleck Gumede, information and publicity secretary, Beauty Lifa, Mildred Reason Mangena, Ward 18 chairperson, Mildred Ncube, ward 29 chairperson, Emmelia Moyo, district organiser, Samson Mubemi Magwegwe, and Dorcus Ncube. Also fired are party youth Mqondisi Balanda Moyo, Alfred Dzirutwe, Sphathisiwe Moyo, Nkanyiso Mabhena, Sibongile Moyo, a Stanley and a Sbyleen. The MDC-T axe also fell on the party’s district women’s assembly chairpersons from Makokoba, Mpopoma, Njube-Lobengula, Pumula and Magwegwe. These are Edward Simela (Mpopoma/Pelandaba main wing district), a Masuku (Nkulumane main district), Mavis Mlilo, Flora Gumbo, a Matshazi, a Chingundla and a Ponah, who are general members. “It was resolved that all in Parliament or council should be recalled, henceforth. For all fired have the right to appeal after within 14 days. Already, some members have appealed and their cases are being considered on individual basis and on merit,” Sibanda said. “We encourage all members not to be misdirected by those bent to rule and divide the MDC family. Those fired have a chance to reclaim their membership when they follow proper channels within an acceptable timeframe.” Contacted for comment, Khupe’s spokesperson, Witness Dube dismissed the purge as a non-event, indicating that Khupe, at a rally in Bulawayo, said all members concerned have a right to dissociate themselves for the Chamisa-led faction. The reasons were that they adopted the use of violence to coerce members to rally behind them and discrimination of members on tribal and feminism. These were clearly pronounced in her speech. When they claim to have fired Khupe and Bhebhe, Khupe openly said this was a non-event, as we have since dissociated ourselves from them,” he said. “President Khupe has since called for an extraordinary congress, which was earlier on scheduled for April 7, but has since been postponed to April 21 due to security reasons since we realised that Chamisa and crew will be having their rally here in Bulawayo on the day.” Dube said Khupe’s party has put structures in eight provinces and only two provinces are yet to be structured.