Highlanders coach Madinda Ndlovu is banking on his team’s invincibility at Barbourfields Stadium, where no team has beaten them ahead of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie against Shabanie. BY FORTUNE MBELE Even though Bosso are sweating on the availability of in-form right-back MacClive Phiri and skipper Honest Moyo, who both have to pass late fitness tests, Ndlovu is confident that the Bulawayo giants will continue with their fine run in the league. At Barbourfields the Bulawayo giants have won two matches against Black Rhinos and Nichrut while they two draws against Triangle and Chicken Inn. “Is there any team that has got three points from Highlanders at Barbourfields so far? No! So it is very clear and that is how serious we are in terms of our project. Inasmuch as we would like to respect teams that come to play against us, we have a project that we want to see succeed,” Ndlovu said. “We are very much welcoming to those that want to take us on at Barbourfields. If they (Shabanie) are stronger than us, they will get the three points and if they are not, we will smile again at the end of the game.” However, he was quick to point out that they would be cautious against Shabanie, who held Dynamos at Rufaro and Ngezi Platinum Stars at Maglas. “Shabanie are a good team. If you look at the results that they have posted, they went away to Dynamos and got a point and they also held Ngezi, so they are not a bad side. We will treat them with a lot of respect, we will entertain them just like we have done with the others, but if they open up, it will be at their own peril. Soweto will rise,” the Bosso gaffer said. Shabanie Mine stunned Highlanders with a 1-0 win last April at Barbourfields, but fell 2-0 at Maglas in the return fixture. Their first visit to Bulawayo this year resulted in a 3-0 hammering by Chicken Inn at Luveve. Ndlovu wants to see his youthful side getting used to winning. “We are doing all we can to get the three points. The boys have to mature with the feel of winning games and that is the only thing that can give them confidence to get their desired goals,” he said. “Even though we don’t know who is who at Shabanie, we will do what we have been doing in the past and emphasise that we play entertaining football.”