THERE were two well-taken goals by each of them. What made them more special was that these were their first goals since joining the Green Machine. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA
Caps United….(2) 2
Herentals………0 Abasirim Chidiebere and Denver Mukamba scored a goal each in the first half, as Caps United overcame battling Herentals in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie at  the National Sports Stadium yesterday. The man rejected by Dynamos for his wayward behaviour, Mukamba, was involved on both occasions. With just five minutes into the match, Mukamba curled a wonderful corner kick and Chidiebere got to the end of it, before leaping highest to nod the ball home. It was the Nigerian’s maiden goal since he joined the Caps and his celebrations, when he raced to the fans and then embracing his coach, Lloyd Chitembwe said it all. It was their second victory of the campaign after a sluggish start that saw Caps drawing three matches and winning one. The Green Machine were by far the better side in the first half in which they carved out good chances. John Zhuwawo was also unlucky not to have added his name onto the score sheet after his effort crashed against the upright post on 20 minutes. Three minutes later Chidiebere failed to do justice to a good cross by Simba Nhivi from the right, blasting his effort wide. Mukamba, however, put Caps United 2-0 up on 39 minutes, drilling a low shot that beat goalkeeper, Kudakwashe Magama with the Herentals defence guilty of ball watching. In the second half, Herentals appeared to have found their rhythm, as they matched their more illustrious opponents in every aspect of the game. Caps United could have scored on 57 minutes, but Nhivi’s effort missed the target after his sharp turn. Herentals, forward, Blessing Majarira, who has previously played for the Warriors, came close on several occasions, but was denied by goalkeeper, Prosper Chigumba. The Premiership newboys, however, remained determined, as they launched some raids on Caps United goal, but they found their opponents refusing to buckle.
Chitembwe was pleased with the result. “I am very satisfied with result, a clean sheet and two goals. The speed of thought and movement, there is improvement in those aspects and I am happy, especially with the way those goals by Mukamba and Chidiebere, were executed,” he said. His counterpart, Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva, lamented the concession an early goal for the defeat. “Today, we got it wrong when we conceded an early goal in five minutes. The boys were no longer settled, but we matched Caps United in some aspects. From transition to attack, we didn’t execute that well but in terms of possession we were better than them,” he observed. Teams Caps United: P Chigumba, C Munzabwa, V Musarurwa, D Dauda, S Makatuka, K Nyamupfukudza, D Mukamba (O Machapa 58’), S Nhivi, J Ngodzo, J Zhuwawo, (R Moyo 73’), A Chidiebere (M Ncube 84’) Herentals: K Magama, W Chimbetu, B Majarira, B Maunganidze, C Mavhurume, W Kapumha, A Majarira, A Chiwandamidza (P Chota 69’), H Chikosa (R Hachiro 49’), I Benza (J Mutudze 82’), B Majarira