TRIANGLE . . . . . . . . . (0) 1
ZPC KARIBA . . . . . . . . . . .0 BY KENNETH NYANGANI IN TRIANGLE TRIANGLE relieved pressure on coach Taurai Mangwiro with their first win of the season which came against strugglers ZPC Kariba at Gibbo Stadium yesterday. It took a last-gasp effort from Lameck Nhamo to give the home side the much-needed win. The home side had failed to find the back of the net in their first three matches, which came against Shabanie Mine, Ngezi Platinum and Highlanders. With home fans making their way out of Gibbo, the pint-sized Lameck was teed up by Donald Dzvinyai to beat the impressive Takabva Mawaya Lameck came in as a replacement for Courage Denias on the 59th minute. Mangwiro was ecstatic after winning the match, saying the win was a great relief to the team and fans. “I want to salute our fans. I think this game is for them, they supported us and they know that it was only luck that was missing, as we were playing well’’ he said. “Ever since I came to Triangle, I have never seen something like that. They were behind us through-out the match. The players had to dig deep,” he said. His counterpart, Godfrey Tamirepi said his team squandered chances in the second half. “I am very disappointed, especially losing in the dying stages of the match, but I think we had a good game. We played well, particularly in the second half,” he said.
Triangle started the match on the front foot with raids in the visitors goal and they could have scored as early as the second minute of the match through Collin Dhuwa, but his close range shot was saved by Mawaya. Phenias Bhamusi also had a shot saved by Mawaya. Triangle created more chances than their counterparts in the first period, but Mawaya kept them at bay. The second stanza started with both teams struggling to create meaningful chances. Teams
Triangle: C Mariyoni, R Kawondera, A Chivheya, K Chigwida, D Dzvinyai, T Mavhunga, C Dhuwa, A Chiwandire, C Denias, R Madamombe( P Magededla 64min), P Bhamusi
ZPC Kariba: T Mawaya, B Zuberi, I Nekati, S Appiah, M Kunyarimwe,T Munyanduri, C Muleya, G Mangani, S Gorongodyo, J Gwara, T Nyamandwe