NICHRUT FC . . . . . . . . 0
NGEZI P/STARS . . . . . 1
BY TERRY MADYAUTA
Ngezi Platinum Stars maintained their perfect run in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League with a hard-fought win over newboys Nichrut in a match played at Ascot Stadium in Gweru yesterday. Madamburo put up a gritty show and got their points clincher in the second half after a tough first period. Terrence Dzukamanja was on target for Ngezi Platinum, applying a classy finish touch to a curling cross shoved from substitute, Clive Augusto on the 56th minute. Michael Charamba almost grabbed a goal in the stoppage time when he weaved past three Nichrut defenders, but his effort went off target. The hosts kept prodding, creating a number of chances in the last 10 minutes, but their strikers lacked the cutting edge. Tatenda Hapazari’s second half diving header, which goal keeper Donovan Bernard acrobatically saved, was the closest Nichrut came to a consolation. Ngezi Platinum Stars coach, Tonderai Ndiraya was happy that his side maintained their winning streak. “We have maintained a 100% record and I am also happy that we managed to collect maximum points at Ascot, which is a difficult stadium to win for any team,” he said.
“Last season, we won the first three games and then lost the fourth, but this time, we won all four and did not conceded any goal, which is a sign that we are in for a good season.” Nichrut coach John Nyikadzino praised his charges despite being handed their first defeat of the campaign. “We played well. I am happy the boys played well. Unfortunately we lost. Ngezi Platinum are a very good team and am happy that we fought to that end against a big team. Had lady luck been on our side, we could have scored a goal or two,” he said.
TEAMS
NICHRUT FC: Jabangwe T, Madanire B, Moyo N, Boriondo D, Nhongo A, Vimisayi F, Sithole S,Chivasa J (Kanchwachwa A, 87’), Mpinduki N ( Hapazari T, 67’), Sibanda K (Moyo V, 58’), Mwinga E.
NGEZI PLATINUM STARS: Bernard D, Murwira G, Chakoroma L, Murera K, Teguru D (Charamba M, 66’), Dzvukamanja T, Mabvura T (Augusto C 51’), Mushonga M (Mukanga W, 81’), Moyo X, Mukarati F, Chipunza T