Unilever will open up European opportunities for local players after they launched the Shield/Chelsea campaign, which will see one player travel to England every year. by Sports Reporter The initiative, which is aimed at developing grassroots football, will see some coaches from Chelsea coming into the country in July to lead a training camp, where they will pick one talented player who will link up with other players picked across the continent to form the Africa team that will travel to the United Kingdom. Four local coaches, who include former Warriors mentor, Kalisto Pasuwa, former Zimbabwe national striker, Alois Bunjira, former Dynamos player, Naison Muchekela, as well as Cosmas Zulu, who was in the Highlanders technical team last year, have been tasked with identifying talent and grouping 30 players, who will go into camp. After the coaches have identified the 30 players, they will go into camp, with these coaches before the Chelsea coaches come in to complete the process. Unilever managing director, Hillary Muzondiwa said that his company was committed to community development and the latest initiative was one of many drives. “Our vision, as Unilever of doing business is one that delivers growth by serving society and the planet. As I speak, I would like to present yet another community involvement endeavour that Unilever Zimbabwe is set to embark on. Allow me to present the Shield/Chelsea Campaign. This campaign is a football talent search offered to you by our deodorant brand, Shield in partnership with Chelsea Football Club.” The competition for the sole place in the Africa team is open to both males and females between the ages of 18 and 25. “This campaign is calling on soccer players in our community to come forward and showcase their talent. The best players will be selected to represent Zimbabwe in an Africa 11 team alongside players from nine other African countries.” There were, however, questions on whether it is fair for the ladies to compete with men for the sole ticket, but the coaches promised to give everyone a fair shot.