TRIANGLE continued with their fine run after edging Caps United 2-1 in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played at Gibbo Stadium yesterday. BY KENNETH NYANGANI  IN TRIANGLE
TRIANGLE…………………(0)2
CAPS UNITED………….…(0)1 Star player, Lameck Nhamo was the hero again for the home side after scoring a late winner. It was the home side’s third consecutive win, following victories against ZPC Kariba and Yadah FC. Triangle opened the scoring in the 52nd minute through Talent Mavhunga before Joel Ngodzo equalised on the 83rd minute from the penalty spot. The match looked like it will end in a draw, but Nhamo had other ideas, firing home the winner with a few minutes remaining in the match. Triangle coach, Taurai Mangwiro was happy with the win. “We are taking each game as it comes. The players worked hard against a well-organised Caps United side. It’s a sweet win for us, as this was not an easy match –  against a big team. We are now working on our future matches,’’ he said. Caps United coach, Lloyd Chitembwe was satisfied with the team’s performance despite the defeat. “Our performance was not disappointing. We played good football in the second half. We did came strongly in the second half, we could have done far much better to prevent the second goal,’’ he said The visitors started the match on the back-foot with the hosts running rings around the opposition box in the early stages of the match. Triangle almost took the lead as early as the 5th minute, but the pint-sized Nhamo’s shot was saved by goalkeeper, Prosper Chigumba. The hosts had another real chance on the 21st minute after Arnold Chivheya’s pin-point cross to Patrick Magededla was tipped over the bar the impressive Chigumba. Chitembwe tactics went up in smoke just after the hour mark, when he was forced to substitute John Zhuwawu for Praise Tonha due to an injury. Brian Muzondiwa forced an excellent save from goalkeeper, Marion Chang just before the end of the second half, with the rebound falling to defender Valentine Musarurwa, who blasted over the bar. Triangle started the second half brightly and were rewarded on 52nd minute, when Trevor Mavhunga headed home from a Russel Madamombe corner-kick. Caps United upped the tempo and were duly awarded a penalty on the 83rd minute. Up-stepped Ngodzo, who made sure, before Nhamo provided a late goal.