POWERHOUSE vocalist and songwriter, Tumisang Makwenya — best known as Dr Tumi — is expected to jet into the country today ahead of Apostle Java Ministries 2018 Thy Kingdom Come Worship Summit scheduled for tomorrow at the Harare International Conference Centre. BY ANESU MUSHAWATU Apostle Java Ministries head of marketing and communications, Edward Taruvinga, told NewsDay Life & Style yesterday that preparations for the summit — which will include a Let’s Fill Up the HICC with Dr Tumi concert — were at an advanced stage. The award-winning South African gospel icon commands a huge following in the region and beyond. “We are all set for the summit and we are now waiting for the team to arrive. Dr Tumi is flying in today together with his band,” Taruvinga said. Tickets are going for $5 (standard), $10 (VIP) and $30 (VVIP). The VVIP ticket covers a business event at Meikles Hotel. “There has been a lot of disappointments with international artistes in the past as people were sceptical on whether he was really coming in since he is a household name in terms of gospel music, but now tickets are selling very well and we have seen a positive response from people.” He said some people will be coming from as far as Namibia and South Africa for the show. The event — hosted by Tabernacle of Grace Ministries founder Batsirai Java — will also see top local gospel music acts Michael “Minister” Mahendere and Takesure Zamar sharing the stage with the South African icon. Taruvinga said tickets will be available on the day of the event and invited Zimbabweans from across denominations to attend the summit, which is an annual affair.
“We will be selling tickets again at the venue from 9:30am to avoid congestion and we are inviting all Zimbabweans regardless of denomination to come and worship God together with us at the summit,” he said. Known for his hit songs Nothing Without You, Most High God and All of Me, Dr Tumi is also a songwriter and medical practitioner who became the first gospel artiste to fill up South Africa’s largest indoor venue, the Ticketpro Dome last year.