A DELEGATION from Japanese multinational photography and imaging company, Fujifilm Holdings Corporation, is expected in the country next week to engage local filmmakers on possible synergies. BY TAFADZWA KACHIKO Fujifilm Broadcast and 4K Optics Africa Division sales manager, Richie Ebrahim told NewsDay Life & Style that he would be arriving in the country with his delegation on Monday night. The delegation will meet local thespians at the Zimbabwe International Film Festival Trust (ZIFFT) and pay a courtesy call at the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation. “We are coming to Harare on Monday and we will meet filmmakers the following day at 12 noon at the ZIFFT Hub to introduce ourselves and see how best we can assist Zimbabwe’s film industry. We will also visit ZBC,” he said. “We are giving the industry the opportunity to buy cine and broadcast lenses directly from a manufacturer, thereby, saving their money. The support was non-existent from any cine lens provider.” Ebrahim said his company was ready to negotiate with potential buyers for affordable prices. “Our pricing has become somewhat competitive and there is also a broader range to choose from. We are ready to do whatever it takes to keep our customers happy,” he said.
Zimbabwe International Film Festival consultant, Nakai Matema, described the visit as a great opportunity for local filmmakers, particularly directors of photography (DOP).
“It’s a great pleasure for ZIFFT to host Richie and his colleagues. We hope that filmmakers especially DOPs, will take full advantage of the team’s presence especially considering that Fujinon lenses can suit various cameras like the Canons which most Zimbabweans use,” she said. Matema, who is also the short film project producer, added that ZIFFT would continue to facilitate such engagements. “ZIFFT is happy to be able to facilitate such an engagement which in turn will help grow the local film industry and allow better productions all around. It will continue engaging individuals and organisations that have a bearing to the growth of the industry,” she said. The local film industry has been stuttering over the last few years due to lack of investment.