LOCAL fans of Nigerian superstar David “Davido” Adeleke seem to have forgiven the musician and have accepted his apology after he cancelled two scheduled performances last year.
On Saturday, they came out in their thousands for his 30 Billion Concert at Harare International Conference Centre. BY WINSTONE ANTONIO The Naija star had to apologise to his local fans for his bad boy conduct when flamboyant businessman Genius “Ginimbi” Kadungure gave him another chance to stage his second performance in the country. Flying into Zimbabwe for the much-awaited concert, the Skelewu hitmaker knew he had a mammoth task to recompense his loyal fans. True to his words, when he touched down at Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport, he said he was going to stage a great show, and he did exactly that. He gave his fans a par excellence performance. Backed by his live band alongside his Atlanta-based DJ and producer DJ ECool, unlike the previous show at Belgravia, where he disappointed fans after he performed for less than an hour using backing tracks, Davido this time proved why he is rated among the best on the continent with a captivating performance that was value for the fans’ money. The award-winning singer was introduced to the stage by celebrated South African television personality Boity Thulo at around 1am after Jah Prayzah’s charming performance, that also saw dancehall singer, Killer T joining him to perform their duet Hondo, off the latter’s latest album Mashoko Anopfuura. Although the sound was terrible, such that the Skelewu hitmaker could be seen “shouting” to the engineers, this, however, did not dampen the partying mood, as he managed to charm thousands of his fans across generations, who had thronged the auditorium, belting several hits, among them Dam Duro, Gobe, All of You and Tchelete, among others. During his performance, Davido engaged well with the crowd, as he asked some female dancers from the crowd to join him on the stage and showcase their skills, which they did to
perfection. As the fans were still glued to Davido’s performance, the atmosphere was further electrified when Jah Prayzah joined him on the stage for their collaboration My Lily. In the midst of his performance, Davido saluted Ginimbi for bringing him to Zimbabwe for the concert and also apologised for the second time to his fans. “Can I say something, I want to apologise to you guys for failing to make it for those two shows,” he said. “I love you guys, thank you for supporting African music. You know, many people want to listen to African music, it’s number one. I am happy for the support Zimbabwe, Harare,” he shouted. During his performance, there were incidents of violence in the crowds, as some fans were seen engaging in punch-ups that, at some point, forced Davido to briefly stop singing, as he called for harmony. There was elegance at the concert, as the VIP and VVIP sections were clothed in all white. The who-is-who in the business fraternity and showbiz, known for being big spenders, were housed in the VVIP enclosure, where the entry tag was $2 000 for the platinum package, with the gold and silver packages priced at $1 500 and $1 000, respectively. Among those who were in the VVIP enclosure were Bona Chikore and her husband Simba, socialite and model, Jackie Ngarande, Joseph Tazviona Mhaka, known in his circles as Chief Jose, Dollar Bill, Pokello and radio and television personality, Tich Mataz, among others. Rising dancehall singer, Jah Signal, Selekta Base and Judgement Yard were also among the performers, who shared the stage with Davido, who left the country yesterday mid-day.