Dynamos . . . . . . . . . . . 0
Highlanders . . . . (1) 1 BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA ONCE again, Ozias Zibande scored the goal that made the difference, as Highlanders condemned old enemy Dynamos to their third defeat of the campaign after they displayed a lifeless show in a Castle Lager Premiership tie at Rufaro Stadium yesterday. The Bosso forward capitalised on sloppy defending by the home team to tap in from close range at the stroke of half time before a huge crowd. It was his third goal in three matches, after scoring a brace against Herentals last week. More importantly, the goal ensured Madinda Ndlovu’s men remain unbeaten in four matches of the campaign. For Dynamos, it means they only have one point from four matches, after they suffered defeats to Chicken Inn and Ngezi Platinum, while earning a point against Shabanie Mine. The supporters turned their frustration at club president, Keni Mubaiwa after the match, barricading the main exit from the stadium and demanding his resignation. Bosso dominated from the start, launching wave after wave of attacks on the Dynamos goal. The home team, however, were guilty of long and stray passes. They whacked the ball hoping it would land in a good spot. And Highlanders were just too happy to fasten on to the loose balls. That Dynamos got their first shot at goal on 21 minutes when Ocean Mushure directed his effort wide summed it all up. On 34 minutes, Gabriel Nyoni missed an opportunity in the penalty area, choosing to stop the ball instead of shooting first time. However, at the stroke of half time, Zibande put Bosso ahead following a defensive mix up. In the second half, Highlanders continued with their dominance, with Zibande coming close on 67 minutes, but failed to convert a rebound following a sizzling shot by MacClive Phiri. Madinda was impressed with the performance of his charges. “I think if we look at this game from a critical point of view, you will agree with me that it was a game played with passion and anxiety. The two teams came in and gave the best of what they got,” he said. “For the people (supporters) that came in, it was a worthy show. Dynamos played very well and they are a good team, but I think it was bad luck on their side. Credit goes to my boys. We saw that even when the pressure was mounting, they were able to contain it to the very end.” His counterpart, Lloyd Mutasa expressed displeasure with his side for failing to put away their chances. “I think it was a tough encounter, but I think they created chances and utilised them. We had our few chances and we failed to utilise them and two games without scoring are worrisome,” he said. “You don’t win matches if you don’t score and we should go back to the drawing board. “You know in football, at times it doesn’t go the way you want. As a football coach, I am not here to criticise my players, but probably, what we can do is go back and look at ourselves in the mirror and see what to do to progress.” Teams
Dynamos: T Mateyaunga, B Moyo, O Mushure, G Mukambi, J Tigere, J Marufu, O Mwerahari (K Dhemere, 61’), R Manuvire, K Kumwala (Q Kangadze, 59’), T Macheke, V Kadonzvo (T Uswahwengavi)
Highlanders: A Sibanda, H Moyo, M Phiri, A Silla (N Makumbe, 51’), B Banda, O Zibande (B Ncube, 78’), P Musaka, G Makaruse, T Ndlovu, P Muduhwa, G Nyoni (T Lunga, 72’)