THE future of Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa has been thrown into doubt with the club leadership expected to meet on Thursday this week to review the team’s dreadful start to the season which has seen them collect just three points from a possible 21. BY HENRY MHARA Mutasa’s men fell 1-0 to archrivals Caps United through a Denver Mukamba goal at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday, a defeat that left the team rooted second from the bottom on the log standings, and 16 points behind leaders Ngezi Platinum. Dynamos chairman Keni Mubaiwa yesterday said they were worried with the way the team continued to slide and have given Mutasa and his backroom staff four matches to save their jobs. “We want to know where we are falling short. We will meet on Thursday with the technical team to get their side,” Mubaiwa said. Following the latest defeat, probably the most painful to the Dynamos fans so far, a section of the Dynamos supporters have called for Mutasa to be relieved his job. “I know it’s hard to lose a match for us all, but we will not rush into making such a decision. Maybe if the situation does not improve in the next three or four matches, we will be thinking differently. We could change the coach today and results remain the same. We need to first interrogate and see if there are other problems that are causing the team to perform the way it is doing,” Mubaiwa added. DeMbare’s next four matches are against struggling Bulawayo City this weekend, followed by a trip to Chapungu, then a Harare derby against Harare City before travelling to Bulawayo for a date with Bulawayo Chiefs. Mutasa has blamed the departure of chief striker Christian Ntouba as the main reason for the team’s dreadful display. His argument could hold some water after his strikers, in particular Quality Kangadze, wasted glorious chances against Caps United. Had the strikers converted half of the chances they created, Dynamos could have won the match. But Mubaiwa said Mutasa will have to forget about Ntouba and find other means to get the goals. The Cameroonian, who had eight months still on his contract, quit the club over non-payment of signing-on fees and allowances. “We cannot continue to mourn about Ntouba. We should get over him and move on. One man cannot make a team. We won matches in his absence last season and we should win without him this year. We will work with players who want to be part of the team. It’s only a matter of winning one match and we will be up and running,” Mubaiwa reckons. Mukamba, on loan from Dynamos, scored the solitary goal of the match against his paymasters, and to rub salt to the wound, and celebrated it wildly.
Match day eight fixtures Saturday: Mutare City v FC Platinum (Vengere), Black Rhinos v Bulawayo Chiefs (Rufaro), Herentals v Harare City (NSS), Nichrut v Caps (Ascot), Chicken Inn v Yadah (Luveve), Ngezi v Highlanders (Baobab), Shabanie Mine v ZPC Kariba (Maglas) Sunday: Dynamos v Bulawayo City (Rufaro), Triangle v Chapungu (Gibbo)