DISGRUNTLED Zanu PF supporters from various provinces have appealed for President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s intervention to stop known G40 members from manipulating the candidates’ selection process ahead of the party’s internal polls set for May 5 this year. BY DESMOND CHINGARANDE Addressing journalists in Harare yesterday, National Zanu PF Aggrieved Voters’ Association chairperson Austin Chindega warned that the party risked being hijacked by G40 members, whom he claimed were now dictating terms and declaring their seats as uncontested. Chindega singled out Mashonaland West member and Zifa president Philip Chiyangwa, Kadoma’s Jimayi Muduvuri and Manicaland’s Esau Mupfumi, saying they were G40 kingpins who openly campaigned  against Mnangagwa’s succession bid and even composed praise songs for former First Lady Grace Mugabe. “Some provincial leaders are being bought with silver and gold at the expense of voters. We are born Zanu PF and we will vote for President Mnangagwa, but we want him to correct what some provincial leaders are doing. How can you confirm Chiyangwa as unopposed? We have videos of him with Mupfumi singing Grace’s praise, but they are now in front, they are now representing the party as unopposed,” Chindega queried. He claimed that the G40 activists had manipulated provincial leaderships in a bid to destabilise the party ahead of this year’s general elections. “Prodigal sons are allowed back in the party, but they must take the back seat. Muduvuri has vast tracts of land in Kadoma, which he even invited Grace Mugabe to officiate. He had several land deals he did with former Local Government minister Saviour Kasukuwere. He also has other land deals in Norton, but the same people are taken back to lead us. So, as Zanu PF voters, we are saying no to imposition of unwanted candidates.” Chindega said his executive would soon engage the presidium on the matter. But Muduvuri said: “Those people are talking rubbish. I cannot be a member of the G40. Remember, I am the one who organised 10 provinces for a demonstration against Saviour Kasukuwere after noting that he was dividing the party by feeding former President (Robert) Mugabe’s wife with lies. “I then clashed with Grace Mugabe after she decided to side with Kasukuwere. I am the only person now who is leading the talks between former President Mugabe and President Mnangagwa.” Mupfumi curtly said: “I have no comment,” and Chiyangwa could not be reached for comment on his mobile phone.