WHEN the organisers of Thy Kingdom Come Worship Summit 2018 settled for award-winning South African gospel crooner Tumisang Makwenya to be the icing on the cake under the theme, Fill Up the HICC with Dr. Tumi, it was probably a huge leap of faith. BY ANESU MUSHAWATU The Harare International Conference Centre has in the past punished pretenders that dared to fill it up, but ended up attracting paltry crowds. But the medical doctor-turned-worshipper, Dr Tumi, lived up to his billing on Saturday afternoon when he filled up the gigantic auditorium and cascaded his audience into the realms of worship with many of his classics including All of Me, Most High God and Nothing without You. It was all-systems go for the performer who also holds the record of being the first South African gospel musician to fill up The Ticketpro Dome in South Africa during his debut Gathering of Worshippers Concert held last year. Show organiser Batsirai Java — who is founder of Tabernacle of Grace Ministries — described the performance as heaven kissing earth. “The Holy Spirit ministered through his people,” the awestruck Java in an address to journalists said, “I have watched these men perform (before), but I have never seen what they displayed   today. It was electric. Heaven and earth kissed each other and this is a blessing to Zimbabwe.” Dr Tumi shared the stage with top local gospel acts including South Africa-based Takesure Zamar-Ncube and Michael “Minister” Mahendere. The producer and songwriter said he was charmed by the support he received from his Zimbabwean fans. “I had a beautiful time in the presence of the Lord, especially because this is my first time here and I have seen a lot of people,” he said. “I appreciate the love and support it goes a long way and this is what it is all about lifting Jesus’ name and sharing the gift with God’s people.” Zamar said he could tell that his local fans were missing him when they requested him to perform the hit tracks Pamsoro Penyasha and Kuregerera in Advance before leaving the stage. “I had to come back from South Africa for this event and the welcome was amazing,” he said. Mahendere got the audience on their feet with plug tracks including Makanaka Jesu and Zvichanaka.