DYNAMOS president, Keni Mubaiwa (pictured) has vowed to stay on despite supporters calling for his immediate resignation following the team’s dismal start to the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League campaign. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA The Harare giants were beaten by old foes Highlanders on Easter Monday, their third defeat in four matches. Their latest defeat caused pandemonium at Rufaro Stadium with the supporters barricading the exit point after the match, calling for Mubaiwa’s head. They only dispersed after police fired teargas. That was not the first time that the team’s supporters had caused a scene at their home ground this season, as they also blocked the exit point after the team surrendered a three goal lead to draw 3-3 with Shabanie Mine last week. However, it appears the supporters’ calls are falling in deaf ears. “What they (supporters) are saying does not make sense at all. They call for my resignation, but are they the ones who appointed me in the first place. I can only be removed from my position by the appointing authority not the supporters. I will not lose sleep over what they are calling for,” a defiant Mubaiwa said. The Dynamos fans blame the club’s hierarchy for the team’s lifeless display, in particular its failure to pay chief striker, Christian Ntouba his dues. The Cameroonian is owed $16 000 in signing on fees and allowances and has not featured for the team this term in protest. His issue has also been made complex, as his work permit has since expired. Dynamos are dragging their feet in sorting the papers, which has prompted the player to demand a clearance. He wants to return to his country. But Mubaiwa said they were still committed to paying Ntouba his dues, but were unable to do so, as they were facing financial challenges. “We will pay him his dues but the problem for now is that there is no money. Once we get the money, we will pay him. It’s not like we do not want to pay him,” he said.
Coach Lloyd Mutasa has attributed the absence of Ntouba who finished as the club’s top goal scorer with 12 goals last term, as a major contributor to the team’s dismal start to the campaign. The fixtures have also not been kind to Dynamos, as they have faced some tricky and bogey opponents in their opening matches of the campaign. Besides Highlanders and Shabanie Mine, they have also played Chicken Inn and Ngezi Platinum. Next up for them is another tough trip to ZPC Kariba. The Harare giants lie uncharacteristically second from the bottom on the log with just a single point in four outings. Dynamos finished second last season, beaten to the finishing line by eventual champions FC Platinum on the very last day of the league programme.