THE Premier Soccer League (PSL) have asked the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) to clarify why their officers discharged teargas during the halftime break of the chaotic league match between Dynamos and Yadah FC on Sunday, as the inquest into the unfortunate disturbances that rocked Rufaro Stadium continues. BY HENRY MHARA Resumption of the second half of the fiery match, which ended 1-1, was delayed for about 15 minutes as the police tried to contain the rowdy supporters, who felt provoked after a teargas canister was thrown their way during the halftime break. PSL yesterday announced in a statement that they had asked for a report from ZRP on why they discharged the tear smoke. “The Premier Soccer League is concerned with disturbances that interrupted the Yadah FC v Dynamos FC match played at Rufaro Stadium on Sunday 15 March 2018. We have received the referee’s report, however we are waiting for reports from the match commissioner and Dynamos FC on what transpired during the said match. We further advise that we have written to the Zimbabwe Republic Police seeking clarification on why they released tear smoke inside the stadium during the match. We will issue a statement after we have received the said reports. We would like to remind our stakeholders that our stadia should remain peaceful spaces where fans can enjoy the beautiful game of football,” said the PSL. A police officer detonated a teargas canister into the Vietnam stand, a section that houses vocal Dynamos supporters just as the referee blew for the halftime break.
Running battles then ensued between the supporters and the police officers, who went to discharge another canister as the situation turned chaotic. It resulted in a 15-minute delay of the second half, with normalcy returning after the police officers, who had ignited the fracas, driven out of the stadium. Dynamos are set to be punished for the part that their supporters played in the embarrassing incident, as well as throwing missiles onto the pitch during the match. The Harare giants, going through their worst possible form, after picking just three points from a possible 18 this season, are facing a $2 000 fine from the PSL. DeMbare were fined the same amount for a similar offence last season. According to the PSL’s Standing Order and Fines, missile throwing by fans attracts a $2 000 fine for the club. DeMbare supporters started raining missiles onto the field in the first half, protesting a throw-in decision against their team. That incident would set the tone for the rest of the match, causing countless stoppages during the course. Yadah players’ delaying tactics, in particular goalkeeper Steven Chimusoro, irked the home supporters and they would throw objects in his direction every time he went down. The visiting team finished the match with 10 men after their captain Jimmy Dzingai was red-carded for idiotically returning missiles to the crowd.
He was shown a straight red and could be further sanctioned by the PSL for his troubles.