CAPS United’s season is finally off the ground after they produced a professional performance to subdue Black Rhinos in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. BY HENRY MHARA Black Rhinos . . . . . 0
Caps United . . . . (1) 2 Simba Nhivi scored a brace to give the Harare side their first win of the campaign, having stuttered in their opening three matches where they could only manage draws against Harare City, Bulawayo Chiefs and Fc Platinum. United coach Lloyd Chitembwe was happy with the win, but he wants his boys to improve. “The result at the end was more important but in terms of the other aspects of the game, we are not at the level we want to be. It’s encouraging when you grind results but we still have a long way to go as far as where we want to be,”  Chitembwe said. He gave credit to his defenders for keeping yet another clean sheet, their third in four matches, which he said explained why the team is getting results. Rhinos had their moments in the match, but a combination of bad luck and poor decision-making in crucial areas and times, contributed to their downfall. Their chief striker Lot Chiunga, should be kicking himself hard, after missing guilt-edged chances which, if had been converted, should have changed the complexion of the game. This was their third defeat in four matches. “We lost concentration at crucial moments, in the first 15 minutes of the match and the 15 minutes coming from the halftime break. Caps had two good chances and they managed to put them away. We had our chances, and missed them, but that’s part of football,” said Black Rhinos coach Herbert Maruwa. Chitembwe handed Denver Mukamba his first start for the Green Machine since his famous transfer move, on loan, from Dynamos last month. He made an immediate impact, providing an assist when his corner was blasted home by Nhivi, on second attempt after his initial header had been blocked by goalkeeper Hebert Rusawo after 15 minutes. United should have been out of sight at the break, but Abrasim Chidiebere twice, and Mukamba, wasted decent chances that fell their way. Rhinos looked to respond at the start of the second half, and had a golden opportunity just after the restart when Chiunga rose unmarked from a corner, but planted his header wide. Joel Ngodzo dispossessed Masimba Mambare, before picking Nhivi with a racking pass on the blind side, who easily side footed past Rusawo on the near post on the hour mark. It was game over. Chiunga and Nhivi were guilty of missing good opportunities for their sides later on. Teams Black Rhinos: H Rusawo, T Sibanda, F Banda, B Homora, A Mbara, D Mudadi, A Gahadzikwa (W Kapinda, 67′), M Mambare, M Mekiwa (Jaravani, 52′), W Taderera (M Chigora, 65′), L Chiunga Caps United: P Chigumba, C Munzabwa, V Musarurwa, D Dauda, S Makatuka, K Nyamupfukudza, D Mukamba (T Chiunye, 69′), S Nhivi, J Ngodzo, J Zhuwawu, A Chidiebere (P Moyo, 57′)