A DELEGATION of Swedish business companies is expected in Zimbabwe today to explore business opportunities offered by the country under the new dispensation.
The visit is arranged by the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC) in partnership with the Swedish African Chamber of Commerce (SSACC) and supported by the Embassy of Sweden in Zimbabwe. BY FIDELITY MHLANGA The visit will constitute a business seminar in Harare today and business-to-business meetings on tomorrow at a local hotel. The Industry, Commerce and Enterprise development ministry, Zimbabwe Investment Authority, Chamber of Mines and the Finance ministry will make presentations about the investment opportunities the country offers. “The platform will provide an opportunity for Swedish and Zimbabwean businesses to share their knowledge and experience discussing business and investment opportunities,” ZNCC said in a statement. Swedish companies are interested in exploring opportunities in energy, finance, agriculture, transport and micro-insurance. Global companies such as ABB, Confidere , Okapi Finance International, Swedfund, Hand in Hand Sweden and Voith Hydro will be participating. ABB is a Swedish-Swiss multinational corporation operating mainly in robotics, power, heavy electrical equipment, and automation technology areas. Okapi Finance International main vision is to facilitate the financial transactions in different developing countries. Hand in Hand Sweden is a civil society organisation whose role is to reduce poverty and child labour through sustainable job creation that raises family income.
Voith Hydro offers the full range of hydroelectric equipment for all kinds of hydropower plants — from turbines to generators, from manufacturing to modernisation, from engineering to life-time services. Swedfund is the Swedish Government’s development financier, contributes to economic and environmental development through sustainable investment by offering risk capital and support for business establishment in growth markets. Speaking on the business to business meeting ahead of the visit, SSACC president, Åsa Jarskog said the organisation had great networks throughout Sadc and was also organising similar delegations in other Sadc countries later this year. “We are happy to confirm that the delegation is fully booked, with a great diversity of Swedish companies. One of the keys to success for Swedish companies doing business in Africa is to find the right partner. This is why we prioritise the individually tailor-made B2B schedules for each delegate, drawing upon our partners and networks in Zambia. SSACC has equally great networks throughout Sadc, and we have received requests to organise similar delegations in other Sadc countries later this year,” he said. The visit, running under the theme Zimbabwe — Sweden Sustainable Enterprise Development through Economic Relations, is being undertaken constitute of Swedish companies interested in engaging/reengaging with the Zimbabwean market.