Just before kick-off Denver Mukamba gave Dynamos Lloyd Mutasa a warm embrace, probably to assure his former mentor that whatever damage he was about to inflict on DeMbare, it was nothing personal. BY Kevin Mapasure
Caps United . . . . . .(0) 1
Dynamos . . . . . . . . . . 0 Or maybe, he just wanted Mutasa, who was influential in the attacker leaving Dynamos, to know that he had buried the hatchet following their fall out. But when the match kicked off, Mukamba took no time to show that he was determined to bury not only the hatchet, but DeMbare as well. Pre-match billing of the Big Harare Derby pitting Caps United and Dynamos had been centred on Mukamba and in the end this Castle Lager Premier Soccer League time played at the National Sports Stadium in Harare yesterday was about him. There may not be any goal that Mukamba celebrated more than this. He must have taken over two minutes celebrating, dancing and saluting the Green Machine supporters as everyone else waited for resumption. Caps United fans have celebrated important goals over the years, but boy they loved this one. Interestingly, at the time that Mukamba delivered the killer blow that flattened Dynamos, he had started to look jaded and had lost the sharpness that he exhibited in the first half of this exciting match. It was starting to look like this might not be the day he would decide the derby in a green shirt. Then the chance came on 67 minutes when substitute Brian Muzondiwa raced to the byline and cut the ball back for the waiting Mukamba, who struck with precision, sending the ball into the bottom corner far from goalkeeper, Tonderai Mateyaunga’s reach.
From there on Mukamba was a ball of excitement blowing kisses to the Caps United supporters at every opportunity. Meanwhile, the Dynamos fans watched in disgust, as their team was slayed by one of their own. What he was doing in the green colour, he might have been doing in blue had it not been of his coach, who could not take anymore of the player’s errant behaviour. Derby defeats are always painful, but for Dynamos fans, the pain and memories will linger long since it was their heartthrob, who returned to haunt them. Yet it should have been Dynamos, who were celebrating at the end of the match, had it not been of poor finishing from Quality Kangadze. The Dynamos striker should have bagged a hat trick by half time and that is no exaggeration. On three occasions, the forward came face-to-face with Caps United goalkeeper, Prosper Chigumba and on two occasions the shot stopper came out tops while the other one went wide. Dynamos came into this match as the underdogs following poor form, where they had collected just three points from six matches, but here they started off with real conviction, picking out Caps and creating chances. Mutasa is a man under fire and his frustration was all too evident as he flapped and frothed with his youngsters failing to land the killer punch. The first-half was full of excitement, with both teams creating chances, but it was Dynamos who looked more likely to score. Kangadze might not have had a wink’s sleep last night. Before those chances Mukamba had struck the frame of the goal in the first minute. Then 14 minutes later, he freed himself after turning Godfrey Mukambi inside out before his shot was blocked for a corner. This is what the Caps United fans had come to enjoy and this is exactly what the Dynamos fans hoped not to endure. Nigerian striker, Abasirim Chidiebere, should have scored just before halftime but he planted his header wide from a Joel Ngodzo cross. Before that Dynamos had squandered a chance after a quite counter that caught Caps rear guard napping. Ocean Mushure threatened with set pieces for Dynamos, but he rarely troubled Chigumba. Showers preceded the start of the second-half and with a slippery surface; the game lost some of its flair, as players struggled for balance. At that point it threatened to be a drab encounter, but Mukamba claimed his place in the limelight after which Caps United managed the game well. Just before the end of the match, Dynamos players quarrelled with the match officials as they claimed that the ball had crossed the line following a melee but they were turned away. They won a couple of corners afterwards, but could not find the target. After the match, Mutasa said that he had no regrets about letting Mukamba leave. “Denver played well for Caps and scored a good goal, I am happy for him, but I have no regrets over the decision I took. I don’t wish him any bad luck.” Caps United coach, Lloyd Chitembwe, was pleased with the result, but admitted that Dynamos had started off the better side. “I must say in the first 20 or so minutes, Dynamos played very well and they showed they had done their homework. But in the second-half we improved and started playing with conviction and we also got a good goal. Denver produces this quality when you give the freedom to express himself, which is what we have done.” Teams Caps United: P Chigumba, C Mudzambwa (J Jangano 66), V Musarurwa, S Makatuka, D Dauda, K Nyamupfukudza, J Ngodzo, D Mukamba (C kamhapa 76), S Nhivi, J Zhuwawu, A Chidiebere (57). Dynamos: T Mateyaunga, B Moyo, O Mushure, G Mukabi, J Tigere (G Saunyama 46), J Marufu, K Dhemere, M Machazane, K Kumwala, Q Kangadze, V Kadonzvo (E Mandiranga 50).