MDC-T leader Nelson Chamisa and his national executive needed to go through Zanu PF’s Herbert Chitepo School of Ideology for them to learn how to run a political party, ruling party deputy youth league leader Lewis Matutu said yesterday. BY TAFADZWA MUTACHA Matutu told journalists at a press briefing that Chamisa had been fanning violence at his rallies by feeding youths with alcohol before they turn on each other in brutal fistfights. He said the opposition party leader had no “a sense of direction” and was welcome to go through Zanu PF’s ideological orientation. “Chamisa doesn’t understand what it means to be a leader and what it means to build (or) work for an economy. He doesn’t understand how to run a political party, this would probably push me to think that indeed he is an illegitimate leader as no political party would like to be led by such a person,” Matutu said. “We are also appealing and inviting Chamisa and his executive to attend the Chitepo School of Ideology so that they get some orientation on leadership. It’s open to all Zimbabweans, including Chamisa, and the whole of the MDC-T leadership. We have already consulted the principal (Munyaradzi) Machacha and he has agreed. Chamisa needs to attend lessons on the founding principles of a nation maybe he can be groomed and mentored into a leader.” Chamisa rose to power in chaotic circumstances that followed founding leader Morgan Tsvangirai’s death on Valentines’ Day. A vicious power struggle pitting the youthful Kuwadzana East lawmaker against co-vice presidents Thokozani Khupe and Elias Mudzuri ensued. Mudzuri later relented and accepted Chamisa leadership, while Khupe was fired and leads an MDC-T splinter group, with a legal battle over the name of the party now underway at the High Court. Matutu accused the MDC Alliance presidential candidate of abusing the youths with alcohol. “As youth league we denounce the gospel of violence that he [Chamisa] has been preaching and spreading all over, in-as-much as we are Zanu PF youth league we take the responsibility of our colleagues who are being abused in other political parties. “We hear of crango, musombodia (illicit imported brews) nema (and) super (local millet beer) so that they can shout and fight each other. We have seen what has happened in Bulawayo and we think that Chamisa should stop abusing young people and he should respect their rights,” Matutu
added. “That they support other parties like MDC or Mavambo (Kusile/Dawn led by Simba Makoni) does not mean they lose their rights. These youths have rights and we will not allow a situation where they are continuously abused.” The Zanu PF youth leader slammed Chamisa for promising Zimbabweans “pies in the sky”. “The promises he is making at rallies are an insult to Zimbabweans. Yes, bullet trains can be established, but not in an economy like ours. We need to develop to a certain level first,” he said.