GRACIOUS Muleya struck with a header at Luveve Stadium on the stroke of full time to hand new boys Bulawayo Chiefs their first Castle Lager Premier Soccer League win in four matches. BY FORTUNE MBELE Bulawayo Chiefs . . . . (0) 1
Chapungu . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Muleya met a well-taken Moses Majika corner-kick to score the winner at the death in a balanced affair against Chapungu at a time the sense of a stalemate had settled in.
It was Chiefs first win after playing three draws to their start in their Premiership campaign which took this points tally to six points. Fitness trainer Thulani Sibanda, who took the team to the top league as head coach but has handed the baton to Garthly Chipuka for lack of a Caf ‘A’ badge as required by Zifa, said that he was happy with the way the team had progressed. “They (Chapungu) dominated the first half and we came back a bit better and created more chances in the second half and we are happy for getting that goal in the last minute. I think we are improving. Of the four games we have played, this was the game we played below par. If you take stock of the guys that are playing, I think they last lost in 2016. Winning is not something strange to them,” Sibanda said. Majika’s tested Chapungu goalkeeper Talbert Shumba with a good shot but the former was equal to the task. Chapungu had their fair share of chances with Blessing Sahondo’s acrobatic effort six minutes into the game hitting the cross-bar before missed a sitter with goalkeeper Kelvin Nyoni to beat in the 79th minute. Coach Tendai Chikuni was disappointed. “We created a lot of chances which we could not bury. If you cannot apply yourself very well that is what happens. Our guys also lacked discipline at the back but overall when you miss chances you will regret them; that is football,” Chikuni said. Teams Bulawayo Chiefs: K Nyoni, M Mkolo, S Nyahwa (C Makamba 77’), P Moyo, L Sithole, T Muzuva, G Muleya, P Chikwende, K Chakanyuka (H Moyo 64’), A Musiyiwa (M Mpofu 87’), M Majika Chapungu: T Shumba, T Kumbuyani, B Chihoya, B Mbavarira (P Marufu 86’), C Kwaramba, M Muchangami, I Nyoni (L Gwerina 64’), E Muzanenhamo, A Tavariswa, B Mtigo (M Mavuto 64’), B Sahondo