LAWYER and businessman Gerald Mlotshwa has grabbed a controlling stake in Dr Dish, which is on the verge of launching a new satellite viewing banquet under its BOSTV brand after a fall out with Kwese TV. BY BLESSED MHLANGA The latest development was confirmed in a statement by Dr Dish executive chairman, Nyasha Muzavazi,  who is currently in the United States where he is tying up the broadcasting deals. “Ktulu Nominees, representing the private family interests of prominent lawyer, Gerald Mlotshwa, has emerged as the single largest shareholder (50%) in Dr Dish following a deal signed over the weekend. The transaction will see Mlotshwa becoming the chairman of Dr. Dish, while Nyasha Muzavazi steps down as executive chairman and to remain the chief executive officer,” read the statement. Muzavazi said the deal was significant to the future of Dr Dish, as it brought in the much-needed capital ahead of a very exciting launch of new products which targets viewers across the globe. “This is significant especially coming ahead of the launch of our exciting products and services over the Satellite Broadcasting Network in Zimbabwe and Africa Sub Sahara, within the next few days after the necessary Regulatory Notifications as required by the Broadcasting Services,” he said. The deal penned by Ktulu Nominess and Dr Dish comes after Kwese pulled out of a five-year licence lease with the content distributor on November 10. Dr Dish said the cancellation of the content distribution deal by Econet Media was done illegally and without notice, setting the two up for a potentially bruising court fight. “Within the next few weeks Dr Dish, which has acquired a full transponder on  Yemal 402  satellite, which shares the same dish with Intelsat 20 and also  additional satellite capacity  on SES 5, which also shares the same dish and LNB with Eutelsat 7B  satellite will be launching a Multi Satellite platform, offering a wide range of both subscription and non-subscription content using a wide range of compatible receivers   to give convenience to our, customers who are already on IS20 and Eutelsat 7B,” Muzavazi said. He said they would be rolling out their first Satellite Tele-Learning, First Satellite Tele-Health and Fist Satellite Tele-Farming in Zimbabwe, alongside general media channels.