DANCEHALL music sensation Winky D will rekindle his romance with dancehall diva Ninja Lipsy — albeit on stage — at the launch of his latest album, Gombwe, and birthday bash set for February 2 at the Harare International Conference Centre. BY WINSTONE ANTONIO Ninja Lipsy will be the only female voice on the stellar line-up of performers at the joint album launch and birthday bash organised by 2 Kings Entertainment. There has been talk about the Ninja President — as Winky D is fondly known to his legion of fans — and the former “first lady” of Vigilance Music being an item following their collaboration on Taitirana PaFirst Sight, which was accompanied by a sizzling video in which the two were featured enjoying steamy moments in line with the song’s theme. The duo, however, poured cold water on the claims, maintaining theirs was a professional working relationship. Ninja Lipsy told NewsDay yesterday that she felt honoured to be among the performers at the concert. “Being roped in to perform at such a concert gives me the courage to keep on working hard and knowing there are some people who recognise my efforts. I promise a bombshell because fireworks will be too small,” she said. “I am what I am because of Winky D who plucked me from the doldrums. That is why I salute him big time, as he has always been readily available to mentor me.” The Gafa hitmaker will also be joined at the launch of his 11th album — featuring top Jamaican dancehall star Beenie Man — by several musicians across genres including Buffalo Soul Jah, Andy Muridzo, Killer T, Sam Dondo, Boom Betto, Jah Signal, Takura, Garry Tight, Vabati VaJehovah, Ricky Fire, Kinnah, Judgement Yard and Merciless. 2 Kings Entertainment spokesperson, Dee Nosh said preparations for the launch were at an advanced stage. “We are happy with the preparations for the launch and the response from the tickets sales. This is going to be a big launch as it will be graced by some surprise guest artistes among other Winky D’s friends in the showbiz,” he said, adding that advance tickets were selling at $7 (ordinary) and $15 (VIP) through cash, swipe and Ecocash.