Warriors forward Tino Kadewere is settling in well at his French Ligue 2 side after he scored his first goal for the club on Tuesday night since he joined them from Sweden. BY Kevin Mapasure Kadewere opened his account with a strike after 20 minutes in a league match against Chateauroux in front of his home fans as his team recorded a 2-1 win. Algerian Zinedine Ferhat, who came in as a substitute ring-fenced all the three points with an 86th minute strike after the visitors had cancelled out Kadewere’s goal. Kadewere took to social media to express his delight at scoring his first goal for the club in his fourth appearance for the team. He profited from a good team move where he was threaded through and found himself face to face with an advancing goalkeeper and finished calmly by dinking the ball over into the back of the nets. He was mobbed by almost the entire team as they celebrated with him after he broke his duck. Kadewere played at the point of the attack in a 4-3-2-1 formation. Le Harve took their tally to 16 points and they also moved to within four points of the play-off places, but there is still a long way to go. Kadewere, who had a nightmarish performance in Zimbabwe’s last Africa Cup of Nations qualifier away to Liberia where they lost 1-0, as he fluffed numerous scoring chances, is rebuilding his confidence and the Warriors technical team would be pleased looking ahead to their final and crucial match in Group G against Congo Brazaville at the National Sports Stadium next year. Also doing well is Macauley Bonne who has continued on a purple patch as he bangs in goals for his side Leyton Orient. Leyton Orient currently sit at the top of England’s National League, which is the fourth tier of that country and Bonne also sits at the top of the scoring charts with 17 goals from 23 matches, just one ahead of closest rival as his team chase an automatic qualification into League Two. Bonne is Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambga’s top target among the plethora of players with Zimbabwean roots that are in Europe. Zifa is working on securing a Zimbabwean passport for Bonne, who has already had a run in Warriors colours and could finally make his competitive debut in the match against Congo Brazaville in the New Year.