On demand Castle Lager Premier Soccer League utility player Liberty Chakoroma has said he is yet to make a decision on which club to join next after he saw out his contract with Ngezi Platinum Stars. BY KENNETH NYANGANI Recently promoted Manica Diamonds are leading the race to sign the player, who launched his top-flight career playing for Buffaloes in Mutare. Chakoroma, who played both as a defender and at the base of the midfield in his two years at Ngezi Platinum Stars, confirmed to NewsDay Sport that he had spoken to Manica Diamonds, but said he had not made a decision yet. He said at least four teams had expressed their desire to sign him on, but there was still a possibility of him re-signing for Ngezi Platinum Stars, who this season will be coached by former Highlanders coach Erol Akbay. Sources have told NewsDay Sport that among other clubs Triangle, FC Platinum and Caps United are all interested in snapping him up. “I am yet to decide on my next move. Yes, Manica Diamonds coach Luke Masomere has been in contact with me, they want me to join them. It is good to be back in Mutare, but I am here on holiday and will not rush into making decisions,” he said. “I have other teams that have been making enquiries to sign me, but I am resting now. I don’t want to make rushed decisions.” Chakoroma said he enjoyed his time at Ngezi Platinum Stars, but said that the ambitious club needed to improve in some aspects. “I enjoyed my life at the club. I think they are almost there in terms of professionalism. There are some few things that need to be addressed at the club. I don’t know, maybe I might also rejoin the club,” he said. Chakoroma started his football career in the eastern border city as a junior player with Deportivo La Sakubva, before he was lured to former top-flight side Buffaloes. Manica Diamonds are trying to put together a strong side, as they make their top-flight debut, where they will be looking to make an instant impact. The Premier League newcomers also have been stalking former Dynamos defender Patson Jaure for his signature.