DEVON Chafa is yet to sign a new contract with Caps United, keeping them waiting despite agreeing a two-year deal with reports suggesting he is expecting an offer from Dynamos. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Chafa has been training with the Green Machine, but he has not yet formally committed to the club. Caps United chief executive Cuthbert Chitima said they had agreed a two-year deal in principle to have Chafa on their books and what was now left was for the player to sign. “We agreed in principle for a two-year deal. Everything is in order. What is just left is for the player to sign,” he said. However, reports suggest that Chafa had been considering a move to rivals Dynamos, which is said to be the reason for his delay in signing a contract with the Green Machine. Repeated efforts to get comment from the player’s manager Gibson Mahachi were unsuccessful yesterday. The Soccer Star of the Year finalist went for a two-week trial stint with Egyptian club Wadi Degla, where he failed to secure a contract. The combative midfielder – whose contract with Caps United expired on December 31 – was, however, said to have been communicating with Caps United coach Lloyd Chitembwe. He had done a scenario planning when he left for Egypt as he is said to have told the coach that he would prefer to rejoin the club if he failed to secure a contract. Should he finally sign for the Green Machine, it would be a major boost to Caps United’s rebuilding exercise as he brings with him experience and industriousness to the team. With Dominic Mukandi having also returned to the Green Machine from Ngezi Platinum, it has helped strengthen their midfield. Caps United have also welcomed back utility player Oscar Machapa, who penned a two-year deal, a valuable addition to a squad that had been depleted following the departure of several players in the last six months of 2017. Ronald “Rooney” Chitiyo is also back at the club after an unhappy spell in Tunisia, where he terminated his contract with CS Sfaxien without kicking a ball after disagreements over signing-on fees. The Harare football giants have also snapped up striker Brian Muzondiwa, whom they signed from FC Platinum, and Simba Nhivi, who returned to the club after a short stint in Tanzania. Goalkeeper Chris Mverechena has also returned to the club after a stint with Triangle. They could also have a foreign flavour in their squad amid reports that a Nigerian forward might join them. Caps United have been rebuilding after they lost key players such as Dominic Chungwa, who joined South African Premiership side Polokwane City, and goalkeeper Edmore Sibanda, who opted for Witbank Spurs in the South African National First Division. Brian Abbasi Amidu joined a North African club, while talented left-back Ronald Pfumbidzai moved to Bloemfontein Celtic of South Africa. Caps United have vowed to fight for the championship this season, which they surrendered to FC Platinum last term. Makepekepe finished in fifth place, mediocre performance that was attributed to their taxing participation in the Caf Champions League, where they managed to reach the group stages of the competition.