THE Chartered Institute of Customer Management (CICM) in collaboration with Select Research has officially launched a campaign to come up with the 2018 National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI). BY TATIRA ZWINOIRA In last year’s inaugural edition, the 2017 NCSI revealed Zimbabwe’s national index to be an average of 70,2% as surveyed from 11 sectors in the economy which was weak. Speaking at the launch last Friday in Harare, NCSI consultant, Rod Jones, said that the report was necessary as the results could be tabulated to show areas on how to increase a firm’s revenue based on what their clients wanted. “It is a great tragedy that in many organisations they do not see that link between delivering an exemplary customer manifests as long term loyalty, which manifests as better revenue and therefore bottom line contribution. So I am very excited to learn about the NCSI and to actually see how the methodology works on it and to review that last report to see how it moves in the region not only in Zimbabwe but as the greater region as a whole,” he said. “Change is taking place in the social, political and economic space and I see Zimbabwe as a forerunner in the ability to attract large scale foreign direct investment and generate significant job creation.” He said that in the customer satisfaction department there was room to grow as he saw a massive opportunity to develop customer satisfaction to a level which could increase revenue. The NCSI 2018 research campaign will end in the next few months. The results will be compiled and tabulated for this year’s edition of the NCSI. The 2018 NCSI is expected to be promulgated by the new political dispensation, in which consumer demand is expected to increase. The NCSI is measured with a score from 0 to 70% being low while a ranking from 71 to 100% is high. In the 2017 NCSI, the hospitality industry had the highest ranking of 78,8% followed by medical aid at 78,7%, Long-term insurance (76,6%), short-term insurance (74,3%), print media (70,1%), telecommunication (68,4%), retail services (66,7%),  government parastatals (66,4%), internet service provider (66,1%), banks (64,7%), and airlines (61,7%). NCSI was launched within a context of anticipated rise in total aggregate demand in the country this year. “Local firms can use the NCSI as a tool to optimise customer satisfaction, which in turn drives customer loyalty and thereby corporate profitability. The Index is also used for competitive and cross-industry benchmarking,” CICM chief executive, Ricky Harris said. The 2017 NCSI, Zimbabwe’s consumption declined from 80,59% of total gross domestic product in 2016 to around 76, 42% last year due to declining disposable incomes and rising unemployment rates.