BLACK Panther delivered the fifth largest opening of all time in United States box office history and that was with the added support of American actress with Zimbabwean roots, Danai Gurira. BY TATIRA ZWINOIRA As of yesterday, box office tracking website, Box Office Mojo reported that the film not only delivered the fifth best opening, but also claimed the largest February opening of all time in the United States. Black Panther was released last Thursday in the United States and premiered at the weekend in Zimbabwe. “Atop the weekend box office with an estimated $192 million for the three-day weekend, Black Panther delivered the fifth largest three-day domestic opening in history and is currently expected to finish around $218 million for the four-day holiday weekend (United States public holiday President’s Day, yesterday),” Box Office Mojo said. “The performance is also the largest February opening of all-time, the largest President’s Day weekend opening of all-time and gives Disney eight of the top 10 domestic openings of all-time.” Within the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Black Panther is the 18th release in the franchise and the ninth to open with over $100 million. “It is also the second largest opening in the MCU, behind only The Avengers ($207,4m) and topping the $191 million debut for Avengers: Age of Ultron.” Black Panther is based on a comic book story of the same name and tells the story of its titular hero T’Challa/Black Panther, who after his father’s death returns home to the fictional African nation of Wakanda to take his rightful place as king. But, when a powerful enemy suddenly reappears, T’Challa’s mantle as king – and as Black Panther — is tested when he is drawn into a conflict that puts the fate of Wakanda and the entire world at risk. Faced with treachery and danger, the young king must rally his allies and release the full power of Black Panther to defeat his foes and secure the safety of his people. Gurira plays Okoye, a general in Wakanda and the head of the all-female special forces group. Her performances were some of the highlights for the film due to the prowess, she showed in doing some of the film’s more serious stunts. The film is a visual masterpiece, littered with mind blowing special effects that made the fictional African nation, Wakanda seem real. The movie also made history as the biggest blockbuster for a black all-star film ever released and what aided in these numbers is that the producer Marvel Studios a subsidiary of Walt Disney Studios, released the film during Black History Month.