ZIMBABWEAN golfer Sean Crocker will be hoping to draw inspiration from his solid performance on his last visit to Australia when he tees off in the ISPS Handa World Super 6 in Perth at Lake Karrinyup Country Club, Australia, tomorrow. BY DANIEL NHAKANISO The 21-year-old United States-based golfer has good memories at previous visit to Australia, having recorded a top-10 finish in last year’s Australian PGA Championship. Crocker said he was looking forward to continuing his good run of form in Australia and Asia during this week’s ISPS Handa World Super 6 matchplay, which is one of the richest golf tournaments in Australia, with a $1,8 million purse. “My agent was making a joke that when I come over to Asia and Australia, I play better so hopefully it works that way,” Crocker, who got his first look at Lake Karrinyup Country Club yesterday, said. “It’s a beautiful course, it looks like it’s in great condition and looks like it’s very scorable. You’ve to play well for three days to get in the match play, but it should be a fun week.” Crocker says he expects the crowd to enjoy some attacking golf with plenty of scoring opportunities on the six-match play holes. The innovative tournament format will see the players playing 54 holes of stroke play followed by five rounds of match play to find the eventual winner. “We played the back-9 which they use for the match play which has a lot of birdies on that side, a lot of par-5’s and driveable par-4’s, shorter par-4’s. “So you’re going to need birdies to move on to your next match because pars aren’t going to do anything. “With the driving par-4’s and the reachable par-5’s, birdies and eagles are out there and should make it fun for the spectators to watch once you get shots and long irons in and long putts made.” Crocker, who is the son of former Zimbabwe international cricketer Gary, has been enjoying a fine start to his professional golf career since joining the paid ranks in November last year. After some solid performances towards the end of last year, Crocker started the year on a high by claiming a spot in the field for the 147th Open Championship at Carnoustie, United Kingdom, in July with his tie for sixth in last month’s Singapore Open. He will be eager to bring his best as he comes up against some of the global game’s established stars such as Lee Westwood, Danny Willett, Beef Johnston, Kiradech Aphibarnrat and defending champion Brett Rumford.