IRATE Bulawayo residents have taken the law into their own hands by erecting humps along Nkulumane suburb to stop pirate taxis — Honda Fit — from plying the route after an errant driver knocked down and killed a pupil in the area. BY NIZBERT MOYO The school child was knocked down by a Honda Fit last week along Ntemba Road near Ashes service station. The driver, who did not stop at the scene of the accident, was apprehended by alert residents. The residents said they erected big humps along Ntemba Road near Ashes service station and packed thorny branches on the road sides to prevent the Honda Fits from passing through, forcing them to divert to other routes. “This is a demonstration of our anger about these Honda Fit operators since Bulawayo City Council is not taking any action against them. They are all over the city. There is no order. Some misbehave and do not have licences. When involved in accidents they disappear from the scene,’’ said another resident. Efforts to get a comment from residents’ leaders, who had organised the protesters were fruitless, as they were said to be attending a member’s funeral. Contacted for comment on Wednesday Bulawayo mayor, Martin Moyo expressed his condolences to the bereaved family and said while the unregistered  Honda Fit  operators were a menace, council’s hands were tied as they do not have arresting powers. “We are aware that some Honda Fit vehicle drivers are causing chaos and disorder, but some are registered vehicles which should operate as taxis.  They have no routes and should be parked and hired to any destination,” he said. He said council has no arresting powers and the issue can be best handled by the police and Vehicle Inspection Department. Moyo said there is politics in Honda Fit operations and wars have erupted between them and commuter omnibus  operators. Moyo said council has come up with a transport policy which they have agreed with the three public transport providers  in the city, Tshova Mubaiwa, Bulawayo City Transit Association and Bulawayo United Public Transport Association that they should buy buses and even trains just like what is happening in other countries.