Even though it appears to many that FC Platinum will not make it to the next stage of the Caf Champions League, Clube Dosportivo de Agosto  are still wary of their opponents ahead of the second leg tie that will be played at Mandava Stadium in Zvishavane. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA IN LUANDA, ANGOLA Norman Mapeza’s side were hammered 3-nil and will need to put up probably one of their best performances if they are to overturn the first leg deficit to progress further. Dosportivo de Agosto coach Zoram Manoljovic believes the tie is still open and FC Platinum have the capability to score the goals they need to go through. The Serbian coach said he had seen brilliant comebacks in African football and would approach the second leg with caution. “FC Platinum are a strong side and for us to score three goals is great. But we need to be cautious because anything can happen in football,” he said FC Platinum will have to move mountains as they battle to make it to the next round of the tournament. Mapeza’s men will now have to score no less than three goals to provide hope to a campaign that continues to unravel. The Zvishavane side have participated in the African safari before where they failed to make an impact and it seems this will be another disappointing campaign for the platinum miners.
Should they manage to overcome the Angolans, they will meet the winner between Bidvest Wits of South Africa and Pamplemousse of Mauritius. The Zimbabwean champions were the authors of their own downfall as their defensive frailties were exposed, having been torn apart by Zambian side Zanaco in the build-up to this match. FC Platinum won the league title last season on the back of a strong defence, but it has not been the same so far. Mapeza, famed for his attacking game, had hinted before the trip that he would dispense with his offensive approach. But it appeared his system was more offensive, leaving the defence vulnerable as the home team found acres of space in midfield to penetrate. He will also be worried that his strike force continues to fire blanks ahead of a match where they will need to score three goals to give themselves hope.