DENVER Mukamba’s former teammates are concerned about his situation at Dynamos, and want the talented star to change his wayward behaviour to save his football career which appears to be plunging into an irreversible tailspin. BY HENRY MHARA The 2012 Soccer Star of the Year is currently banned from joining the rest of the squad in their pre-season preparations due to disciplinary issues stemming from his suspected substance abuse.
The 25-year-old’s shenanigans since last year, when he was banned from the club’s dressing room by the team’s coach Lloyd Mutasa, are causing great worry among his peers Archford Gutu and Abbas Amidu, players he grew up with. Mukamba and Gutu are close friends who formed the core of the all-conquering Dynamos squad of 2011 which won the league four consecutive years. The two also played together in the national team structures Gutu, now based in Sweden, yesterday took to micro-blogging site Facebook to urge Mukamba to salvage his career. “Come back stronger my guy, football will save you,” Gutu wrote. Amidu, who also played with Mukamba in the junior and national teams is asking for divine intervention in the Mukamba situation. He rates Mukamba as one of the most gifted players of their generation, a talent which he does not want to see go to waste. “I have played with people who have talent but Denver is just magnificent, but toti Mwari pindirai (please Lord intervene). He is still the best.” Mukamba’s career deteriorated after returning from an unsuccessful stint with Bidvest Wits two years ago. His relationship with Mutasa broke down when they player absented himself from training together with defender Lincoln Zvasiya in the second half of last season. Reports suggest the two were taking cough mixtures for intoxication and while Zvasiya was kicked out of the club, Mukamba was pardoned and allowed to carry on. Even after that new lease of life, Mukamba still did not report for training and missed the final few matches, where Dynamos were embroiled in a title tussle with FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars. Mutasa indicated that he was fed up with the player and preferred that he leaves the club. But because of his running contract, DeMbare were rather handicapped and “persuaded” Mutasa to work with the midfielder this season. Mukamba being himself, he fooled everyone into believing he had reformed and would attend training sessions. He missed the first week of training and only appeared in the second week, but by then Mutasa’s patience had already been stretched to the limit and the coach then spelt it out that Mukamba’s DeMbare career was over, at least during his time as head of the technical team. A fortnight ago, Mukamba invited NewsDay Sport to his family home for an exclusive interview where he poured his heart out and appealed to his gaffer for forgiveness. Mutasa was touched by the story and appeared willing to give the player an ear. However, the forward continues to let his coach down after he reneged on his promise to report for duty last week.