THERE is no doubt that Zimdancehall chanter, Winky D has put himself in a spot through extensive advertising of his album launch set for Harare International Conference Centre (HICC) tonight and the only way out is for him to deliver. BY KENNEDY NYAVAYA In a recent radio interview the Gafa, as he is affectionately known by his fans, described the project, titled Gombwe as “fire” and “a different level” from his previous work. “The strongest part of the album is the lyrics and that is why we said let us do it differently this year (because) we have been launching albums, but they were not of such magnitude,” he said. Although details on the contents of the album are still sketchy, owing to the secretive nature of the artiste, he promised that it will be historic, as he dishes out “the new order”. “In short, I can say it is more than an album, it’s a new order I will be giving to people,” he said. “What I can say is (its) like making history, so we want all the ninjas (his fans) to come and be part of the history.” Meanwhile, organisers of the show, 2 Kings Entertainment, said all is in place for both the launch and birthday bash, where dozens of musicians including Kinnah, Killer T, Andy Muridzo and South African based Buffalo Souljah are set to perform. “All the artistes on the poster are part of the line-up that will perform at the event and Buffalo Souljah is arriving tonight,” 2 Kings representative, DJ Dee Nosh, said. Winky D’s manager, Jonathan Banda, said Gombwe was coming on the back of considerable successes of it two predecessors — Gafa Life Kicks Tape and Gafa Futi-Chi Extra-terrestrial. “After putting out such an excellent track such as Disappear, you can no longer go back to putting out good music, so the least you can do is stick to releasing very good music,” Banda said. He said although artistes traditionally released music “within the golden window period that is the festive season,” they decided to do it differently because Winky D “has never been a common artiste”.