IT appears Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa has softened his stance on Denver Mukamba  and is willing to take the outcast back into the Harare football giant’s fold.
The talented midfielder is currently banned from joining up with the rest of the squad in their pre-season preparations due to disciplinary issues stemming from his suspected substance abuse. BY HENRY MHARA Mukamba spoke exclusively to NewsDaySport last week where he poured his heart out and appealed to his gaffer for forgiveness. Mutasa was touched by the story and is willing to give the player an ear. However, the 25-year-old forward continues to let his coach down after he reneged on his promise to report for duty this week. Addressing the media after the team’s training yesterday, Mutasa, who a fortnight ago refused to entertain the idea of taking Mukamba back, appeared to suggest that he is prepared to smoke a peace pipe with his star. “I can’t respond much on what is being said in the newspapers. I look at the practical side of it. If Denver wants to play, he knows what to do. He shouldn’t be influenced by other people. The desire (to reform) can only be known if somebody comes to training and explains to the people who are in charge. But as long as people are talking outside these perimeters, we can’t involve ourselves much on that,” Mutasa said. “Us as fathers we played our part because it’s not only now that the young man has gone AWOL. He has done that many a time and during those times we visited his house more than any other houses of the rest of the players here. We played our part and if anything, and if the young man feels he has Dynamos at heart like what he is saying, he should not say it in the papers. He should prove it by coming to the football field and talk to the authorities.” Mukamba’s relationship with Mutasa broke down when the player absented himself from training together with defender, Lincoln Zvasiya towards the end of last season. Zvasiya was kicked out of the club, but Mukamba was pardoned and allowed to carry on. Even after that new lease of life, Mukamba still did not report for training and missed the final few matches, where Dynamos were embroiled in a title tussle with FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars. Mutasa then indicated that he was fed up with the player and preferred that he leave the club. But because of his running contract, where he is left with a year and six months, DeMbare were rather handicapped and the club’s executive tried in vain to persuade Mutasa to work with the midfielder this season.