FRESH from being grilled by members of the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Mines and Energy over an alleged $7 million shady Gwanda solar project, businessman Wicknell Chivayo on Tuesday attended the exclusive premiere of Jah Prayzah’s video Angelo-lo, and pledged $10 000 for the musician’s efforts. BY WINSTONE ANTONIO Chivayo was among the guests who attended the video premier alongside Zifa president Phillip Chiyangwa, Chamu Chiwanza and Nash Paints executive chairman Tinashe Mutarisi, as well as renowned Harare-based traditional healer, Sekuru Banda. “Here is $10 000 for you and your wife to go to Victoria Falls for a holiday,” Chivayo said as he made the pledge. On the love-themed video that was shot in Barcelona, Spain, the multi-award winning Jah Prayzah featured Jamaican reggae star, Jah Cure. After the exclusive screening of the video to the guests, it was then released simultaneously on YouTube and other television channels such as MTV Base. According to the singer’s camp, the song is also available on iTunes and other major online stores. The video had clocked over 10 000 views on YouTube by the time of going to print last night, attracting mixed reactions. The Kutonga Kwaro hitmaker told NewsDay Life & Style that it was a great experience working with Jah Cure for about two months to complete the project. “He (Jah Cure) is a very easy person to work with. Most of the times, artistes in this music industry have a tendency of this ego, but with Jah Cure, he is a different person. We have worked together very well,” he said. Jah Prayzah said the idea of setting of the video shoot was steered by Jah Cure, who is a big fan of Spanish football giants Barcelona FC.
“When we were discussing where to do our song and shoot the video, we agreed that we would do it in Spain, as Jah Cure also wanted to watch some games, which also gave me the opportunity to be in Spain for the first time,” he said. He said he was happy with what he had managed to achieve as it is something way beyond his expectations when he ventured into showbiz, adding that he wanted to put the country on the global map through music. Jah Prayzah now boasts of a chain of international collaborations with top African artistes among them Diamond Platnumz, Mafikizolo, Yemi Alade and Davido.