Dynamos…….(0)2 Highlanders…(0)1 DYNAMOS youngsters gave their fans more reason to believe after producing yet another outstanding performance as the Harare giants overcame old rivals Highlanders to lift the Zimbabwe National Army Charities trophy in an enthralling final at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. BY HENRY MHARA Tawanda Macheke’s shot from an acute angle after a mistake by Highlanders goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda was helped into the nets by Bosso skipper Honest Moyo as he tried to clear the danger to give Dynamos a deserved lead four minutes into the second half. Rising star Kudzanai Dhemere followed up his memorable winner in the 1-0 win over Caps United in the competition’s semi-final last weekend with another smart finish to double his team’s advantage just before the hour mark, as the 19 year old’s stock continues to rise. Highlanders pulled one back 13 minutes from time through a well struck Adrian Silla effort after a melee inside the box and the Bulawayo giants came close to equalise late on with Peter Muduhwa’s header squirming off the foot of the top post.
The victory ensured that Lloyd Mutasa’s coached men, who finished second in the league last season, begin the new campaign with a silverware and a $15 000 cheque. More so, it gives them the much-needed confidence going into the new season, which is expected to kick-off in two weeks’ time. Mutasa sent out the same starting 11 that beat Caps United but it was Highlanders, who also fielded a fairly young squad, who appeared to have settled first in a frantic opening minutes. It was Dynamos though who got the first real chance seven minutes into the game. Madinda Ndlovu-coached Bosso tried to play themselves out of danger, and lost possession to Tanaka Uswahwengavi, who picked Macheke with a lot of space inside the box, but the striker somehow dragged his shot wide. Another Uswahwengavi pass moments later opened up the Highlanders defence for Valentine Kadonzvo to run clear, but his shot from an angle was well saved by an alert Bosso goalie Ariel Sibanda. Chances continued to fall for the Harare giants who were dominating play by a country mile with their short passing game.
Macheke’s scuffed shot didn’t trouble Sibanda and Uswahwengavi’s header from a free kick missed the target. It took 36 minutes for Highlanders to have a sniff at goal with Adrian Silla’s pile driver from outside the box pushed out by Blessing Mwandimutsira. Dynamos got the perfect start to the second half when senior player Marshal Machazane collected the ball inside his box, streaked forward through the middle evading a number of challenges before unleashing a shot which Sibanda fumbled. Macheke was the first to the rebound and his shot from an acute angle was helped into the nets by Moyo. One became two on 58 minutes when substitute Marvellous Mukumba played a marvellous through ball to the man of the moment Dhemere who finished brilliantly, lifting the ball over the advancing SibandaMadinda’s men looked for a response by pushing men forward and were rewarded on 77 minutes when a deflected Nyoni shot bounced off the upright. The defenders failed to deal with the rebound, and Silla capitalised with a shot past Mwandimutsira Sensing that they could get an equaliser, Bosso continued to throw bodies forward, forcing Dynamos to make mistakes.
They almost levelled matters in the last minute of the match when Dynamos substitute Valentine Ndaba needlessly gave away a free kick, which was headed on to the post by Muduhwa. Teams: Dynamos: B Mwandimutsira, B Moyo, R Matova, M Machazane, G Mukambi, J Marufu, K Dhemere, T Uswahwengavi (V Ndaba, 59′), C Kapupurika, V Kadonzvo (M Mukumba, 46′), T Macheke.

Highlanders: A Sibanda, C Simangaloma, P Muduhwa, H Moyo, M Phiri, A Silla, N Sianchiali, P Musaka, G Makaruse (O Zibande, 56′), N Makumbe (T Lunga, 75′), G Nyoni.