FORMER Bantu Rovers and Bulawayo City striker, Newman Sianchali is training with Highlanders and could feature in the ZNA Commander’s Charity Shield final against Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday, as part of his assessment by coach, Madinda Ndlovu. BY FORTUNE MBELE Ndlovu is targeting an experienced gunman to play around youthful strikers, Thabo and Ray Lunga and Godfrey Makaruse and Sianchali, owned by Division One side, Talen Vision, started training with the Bulawayo football giants on Wednesday, with the coach saying he is expecting another striker to join the team. Sianchali, who scored seven goals last season, was loaned to Bulawayo City and Bantu Rovers in the top league last year by Talen Vision. A youthful Highlanders side beat Chicken Inn 2-1 in the semi-final of the army charities tournament with goals from Adrian Silla and Peter Muduhwa. “The game on Sunday will give us an opportunity to see some of the players, who did not play in the game against Chicken Inn. But important to mention is the area that the need for a seasoned striker, which continues to give us a headache. There is need for us to go all out before the window closes to get a striker, considering what we saw last week,” Ndlovu said. He said the technical team would be bending the rules by bringing in an experienced striker into the squad to be announced soon. “We are going to give ourselves enough time to look for that suitable candidate. Now, there is an urgent need for us to get somebody, who can make our project shape up the way we want it. We are going to waiver a little bit in terms of the age for us to sail through, but it will be short term engagement. We have identified one or two but I will not mention the names. One of them is already training with us,” Ndovu said. Left-back, Honest Moyo has been appointed captain this year, while Gabriel Nyoni and Charlton Siamalonga are his deputies. The announcement was made yesterday by the club’s chief executive officer, Nhlanhla Dube.