MAKING music and running an entrepreneurial career are now dual roles that require contemporary artistes to wear both hats in order to succeed. BY TAFADZWA MUTACHA Entrepreneurial skills have come in handy for many musicians in Zimbabwe, as they are now making money and sustaining their livelihoods using their art and making use of marketing, branding, advertising and other financial skills that are at their disposal. Services such as local online music store OyosMusic, have been created to address the massive changes in the music industry also as a way to curb piracy and for musicians to make money out of their creativity. Speaking to NewsDay Weekender Life & Style, rising saxophonist Osborne Matengenzara, popularly known as iamkingzw (pictured left), said entrepreneurship was vital for artistes and entertainers who had to adapt to changing dynamics in the global village. “Entrepreneurship is of paramount importance and in every business, musicians and artistes need to embrace entrepreneurial skills because the world is changing and they need to learn and evolve with the world and as entertainers we cannot keep on doing the same thing and give people the same products every time as it will get boring on the part of the audience,” he said. He also recognised the need to think more creatively than ever before in order to put up with global trends that have dominated the music industry. “You have to think outside the box, be creative and be innovative to bring new stuff to the people, at the end of the day we all want to make money but the only way to make money is to make sure that your product or service is of good quality and then the money will follow, so its entertainment first the making money after,” he said. Matengenzara said the challenge faced by instrumentalists was that they were hardly recognised, as they worked in the background. “We need more opportunities as upcoming artistes, especially on radio. We need our own slots on radio and more awareness of our music. Give us opportunities, put us as opening acts at big events that’s the only way we can grow,” he said. Matengenzara is also a member of a boy band, Jam Signal, popularly known for songs such as Stuck in My Head and Overrated.
He said the band was currently in the studio recording while he was working on Afro fusion Sax Lounge Sessions, Afro-fusions with jazz influences.