FORMER ZimPraise lead singer Joel Chiweda (pictured right) is set to celebrate the first anniversary of his monthly music event, Gospel Soul Nights, with yet another potentially explosive instalment at Utano Gardens in Avondale, Harare, tonight. BY MUNYARADZI MADZOKERE Chiweda, who left ZimPraise in 2014 to pursue a solo music career which, however, suffered a false start, has been hosting a series of gospel events dubbed Gospel Soul Nights since the beginning of last year. The artiste, who hails from Kadoma, could not hide his delight at having completed a full year hosting the musical show.
“I cannot believe it’s been a year already indeed. I am pleased we managed to have a constant flow of shows and we have been improving the quality of our product with each passing episode,” Chiweda told NewsDay Weekender Life & Style.
“It’s been an unbelievable journey. My network has grown and I have created relationships with a number of prominent artistes who have now become part of Gospel Soul Nights.” Top local gospel acts such the award-winning Janet Manyowa, Pastor G, PrayerSoul, gospel hip-hop artist Prophecy of the Hatiko Ikoko fame, poet So Profound and many others have graced the Gospel Soul Nights. The highlight of the event so far was when South African gospel diva Zaza made an appearance late last
year. “The Gospel Soul Nights family keeps growing in numbers and this just proves to me the relevance of the vision and its impact,” Chiweda said. “The idea was to have more of gospel creative art in the music industry as well as to create a platform for old and upcoming gospel artistes to express themselves and share their life stories. We also want to promote the idea of families being able to hang out at night once in a while in an interactive gospel music environment.” Artistes expected to grace the anniversary celebrations include Joseph Nyakabau, Bongani Mhlabi, Adiona and her sisters who are bringing the first a capella act at the event. Tsitsi Muchini, Gabriel Farai Chiduku and poet Black Pearl are also slated to make an appearance. Chiweda moved to Harare in 2011 where he worked with Plaxedes Wenyika, who has been pivotal as a sponsor for the musical nights. He joined ZimPraise in 2012 and toured Australia and the United States with the group before leaving in 2014 to pursue a solo career. He recently worked with FIG Worship Culture featuring on their project, Christ to the Nations, featuring on the song When Jesus Says Yes, which became the hit song of the project.