Dynamos defender Peace Makaha suffered an ankle injury last week and is in a race to regain fitness ahead of the start of the 2018 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season. By Garish Phiri Makaha, who was injured at training on Thursday and has been on crutches since then, will require some weeks for him to fully recover and return to action. The right-back was one of the stand-out performers for Dynamos last season and his absence came as a blow to DeMbare, who will be seeking a fast start in their bid to reclaim the league title that they last won in 2015. The firebrand defender confirmed that he would be out for some weeks, but, despite visibly struggling to walk, said that he was in line to kickstart the season with others. “I sprained my ankle at training on Thursday and I will be out for some weeks, but when the season starts I will be ready to fight for my place in the team.”
In addition to his defensive prowess, Makaha weighed in with crucial goals for Dynamos as they tussled for the league title with eventual winners FC Platinum last season. Coach Lloyd Mutasa could be concerned that one of his key players will miss the crucial part of their preparations for the new season. Soon Dynamos will engage in friendly matches as they seek to gain match fitness ahead of the season, which kicks off on March 10. Among some of the pre-season matches that they will play, which Makaha could miss, is the Zimbabwe National Army Charity Shield semi-final clash against Caps United later this month. There is another tournament that involves two Zambian sides Power Dynamos and Lusaka Dynamos, as well as DeMbare and Caps United. Meanwhile, forward Denver Mukamba, who had promised to attend yesterday’s training session, did not make it. Mukamba is looking to be rehabilitated into the Dynamos set-up after Mutasa had shut him out over last season’s misdemeanours where the player skipped training at will and to the team’s detriment. The talented attacker said in an exclusive interview with NewsDaySport that he had missed training due to illness. He said that he would attend training and seek audience with the coach who has been steadfast on his decision to let go of the 2011 Soccer Star of the Year.