HOW MINE coach Bekithemba Ndlovu has been forced assemble a totally new squad after almost all the players from last year left the Premier Soccer League club. BY FORTUNE MBELE Ndlovu took over from Zambian Kelvin Kaindu, who also dumped the club with one year remaining on his contract to join Power Dynamos back home.
The coach said of the players that featured for How Mine last year, only Zambian Makundika Sakala, Peter Moyo and Milton Ncube trained with the team last week but their future at the club was uncertain. “Basically I am working on a new squad of young players from all over the country. I have not finalised the squad as yet but from the look of things, I think everything is going according to plan. Last week Sakala, Rio and Milton trained with us, but I am not sure if they will stay,” Ndlovu said. Ncube has been linked to Caps United, while Sakala’s move to Chicken Inn appears to have hit a snag. Goalkeeper Munyaradzi Diya and defender Praise Tonha have joined the Green Machine, while Thembani Masuku and Nelson Tachi have been grabbed by new outfit Manica Diamonds, coached by Luke Masomere. Striker Timothy January has been spotted at Bulawayo City training sessions, while Kudzai Chideu is at Chicken Inn and featured for the GameCocks against Zanaco in an international friendly match at Luveve Stadium last Friday. In August senior players went on a strike as the club struggled to remunerate them on time. Kaindu had to make do with a second-string side that was pummeled 6-0 by visiting Dynamos at Barbourfields Stadium before the senior players returned. Ndlovu says he will not be putting himself under pressure with the squad that he is going to come up with and his target in his first year as head coach of a top side will be just to survive relegation. He said some of the players that are training at How Mine include Hamadzaishe Moyo, who was at FC Platinum, and former Bulawayo City’s Eddie Nkulungo but the gold miners have not yet finalised their deals. “I just want to survive relegation. Everyone is new here and it would not be easy trying to build their confidence. For this year, we will just fight to remain in the top league,” Ndlovu said.