SO much joy awaits repentant sinners before God. Celebration is in the offing for every positive response to the Gospel of Christ, that is the Grace of God. There’s remission of sins necessitated by the shed blood of Jesus. Remission means to take away. Devotion with Erasmus Makarimayi Sins will no longer be counted on the receiver of the Grace of God. Remission is something that the sinner gets, as a gift when she/he comes into the Family of God. It’s not based on our good deeds, works of righteousness or human self effort, but it’s the free gift of God. The message of Christ doesn’t have to be shunned, but we should all press in to receive this wonderful unearned, undeserved, unearned and human unattainable favour. To repent is to change the mind towards faith in God. This happens when the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is presented. Jesus procured forgiveness for us. He mediates between God and us in His blood. Acceptance of the Grace of God releases eternal life to us as we’re moved from death to life. This is cause for celebration. Jesus tells us so. Luke 15:10 records, “Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.” The Gospel of Jesus Christ is Good News or Glad Tidings. Good news is something we grab or seize unselfishly. We will be quick to share and spread without asking for reimbursement of costs incurred. We don’t ask for payment for spreading gossip on social media. No one refunds us for the data bundles or even the borrowed airtime. Our attitude to spreading the Gospel of Jesus Christ and sharing the Grace of God needs to change towards positivity. We avail ourselves to the preaching of the Gospel. Because life is being ministered to us, we don’t detest going to church.
 God isn’t holding a whip to deal with us. There’s remission of sins in His blood. All sins are forgiven as we embrace the offer. God offers total and complete forgiveness. It’s not piecemeal or temporary. Psalm 103:3 reveals, “Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases;” All is absolute. We don’t go to God and be partially saved or delivered. The Gospel of Christ offers finished or accomplished works of Christ Jesus. It’s a full package not a half-baked stopgap measure. We get eternal or everlasting life and Jesus Christ eternally saves us. Hebrews 7:25 confirms, “Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.” We don’t fear or doubt; our salvation is sealed and secured. We run to God. He’s merciful and pardons sinners. Remember above we read that He forgives all sins. However, heavy sins may feel on us, if we confess Jesus Christ, the risen Redeemer, as our Lord and Saviour, we’re forgiven. Micah 7:18-19 reveal the character and nature of God, “[18] Who is a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delighteth in mercy. [ 19] He will turn again, he will have compassion upon us; he will subdue our iniquities; and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.” Our compassionate God holds no grudge against us. Turning to Him, throws away adultery, infanticide away beyond recall. God is faithful and He says in Psalm 103:12, “As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us.” Let’s all turn to Him. He’s love and doesn’t keep record of wrong. God delights in forgiveness. Now we understand why Peter had the guts to preach on the day of Pentecost. He never started his sermon with an apology for how he was judged by the cock or skinned by a young girl. God didn’t count it and so Peter didn’t. Understanding the character and nature of God empowers us to victorious and bold Christian living. We share the Grace of God without guilt or condemnation. It’s God’s character that ensures no one except His Son is punished for sins. Isaiah 53:5 assures us, “But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.” Because of God’s love, Jesus died on our behalf. We rise in Him in eternal life. Eternal damnation waits those who refuse the free gift of righteousness. Let’s pass the message of Christ. God doesn’t scare us but embraces us. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge.