THE Minister of State for Harare Mirriam Chikukwa has urged local gospel musicians to focus on producing music that united the nation and desist from having a competitive spirit. BY ALBERT MASAKA Chikukwa told NewsDay Life & Style on the sidelines of the colourful launch of United Kingdom-based gospel minister Timothy Ngwenya’s fifth album Taurai Neni on Saturday. “My message is that they should focus more on uniting the nation through raising God’s word. Gospel and football unite people because when you are having a concert like this, it’s non-political. Anyone can come and enjoy themselves,” she said. Fans who attended the concert were left clamouring for more as the crème de la crème of local gospel music threw their weight behind Ngwenya, who has earned the Zimbabwean gospel music ambassador tag in the UK, where he is also promoting local artistes. The highlight of the concert was probably the performance by local legends Charles Charamba and Mechanic Manyeruke of the latter’s hit song Buruka. Charamba sang the song, while in the audience after Ngwenya had handed him the microphone, as Manyeruke strummed the guitar backing the song on stage. Fans loved it more as they had the opportunity to dance together with their local arts industry heroes including Olivia Charamba, Olinda Marowa, Bethany Pasinawako-Ngolomi, Rhodha Tongogara and comedian Madam Boss, as Charamba sang the hit song a distance away from Rutendo Wutawunashe. Ngwenya had broken the ice together with multiple award-winning singer, Togarepi Chivaviro, as they played the song Baleka off the new album alongside South African gospel musician Godfrey Mondlane. Bethany was next on stage and the fans could not stop dancing to her hit song Ndinzverei and before they could take a rest, Marowa teased them again with a breath-taking performance of her song, Ndinouya. More was to come from Ngwenya and Kudzie Nyakudya on the song Honai Jesu, off the album Tataurai Neni. Nyakudya had rocked the fans earlier with the powerful song Ndiyei Jesu.