BY HENRY MHARA The two parties’ relationship ended acrimoniously in April this year when the Cameroonian terminated his contract with the Glamour Boys and flew back to his native home.
He was unhappy with the previous club executive after it reneged on its promise to pay his salaries and allowances in foreign currency. Ntouba was also owed signing-on fees in excess of $16 000 before he quit. However, the club’s new executive has started a re-engagement process to lure him back. But having been beaten once, Ntouba has become very cautious in his dealings with the club. While he has publicly stated his undying love and desire to don the famous blue and white kit of the club again in future, Ntouba wants Dynamos to pay upfront before he can board the plane back to Harare. Speaking to NewsDay Sport yesterday, his manager Gilbert Sengwe said his meetings with Dynamos had been very progressive. “I must say Dynamos have been very co-operative, and they are responding to our issues well. But remember, there were issues when Christian left, and he is not happy with the way he was treated. I speak to him almost on daily basis, but he wants tangible things before he could commit himself again,” Sengwe said. “He wants surety from me that he would get his money, which, unfortunately, I can’t guarantee that. Once they put the money on the table, everything would be fine. He is prepared to come back. He is also owed by the club, and he is asking if he can get something first before he could sign another contract.” Sengwe also clarified that Ntouba does not have a contract with Dynamos after reports had suggested that he still has five months left on the two-year deal he signed last year. “He terminated the contract on April 5 after a breach by the club. What is there now is a verbal agreement, so, if he comes back, he will be signing a new contract,” the player’s manager explained. Dynamos chairperson Isaiah Mupfurutsa said his club was running around to mobilise resources to meet the player’s demands. “The engagement is still in progress. There were issues which were not resolved amicably between him and the club. He is still owed some money, we need to pay him before we can move to the next stage (of negotiations),” Mupfurutsa said. “All the stakeholders that are involved are seized with the matter. He is a Dynamos fan and wants to play for the club. So once we resolve this issue, he is coming back.
“I can’t give timelines on when he might come back given the forex situation in the country at the moment.” Ntouba had written to Fifa seeking help to recover his money from Dynamos, but the two parties have agreed to settle the matter amicably, without the intervention of the world football mother body. He left the country on April 28, after he had been frustrated by the then Keni Mubaiwa-led executive. Ntouba was a huge influence in Dynamos’ campaign last year when his goals helped the side finish second in the title race when many people had written them
off. Without his power and influence, the Glamour Boys have been vulnerable this term, hovering just above the relegation zone after 19 rounds of matches. Club coach Lloyd Mutasa has made it clear that his team’s problems this term are down to a lack of a trusted gunman in the mould of Ntouba. Dynamos have scored just 17 goals in 19 matches this season, and are currently on 10th position with 22 points, 23 behind log leaders FC Platinum.