STRIKER Simba Nhivi who dumped Caps United last week, is set to complete a move to Ngezi Platinum Stars where he has already passed medical tests. by KEVIN MAPASURE Nhivi’s destination, after he asked to be released by the Green Machine, has been a closely guarded secret, while it was also speculated that he might join Dynamos. DeMbare have since signed Kingston Nkatha and will also register Denver Mukamba who walked out on Caps United. A source yesterday told NewsDaySport that Nhivi agreed to join Ngezi Platinum Stars before he was released by Caps United. The forward was said to have had a strained relationship with Caps United coach Lloyd Chitembwe, but the real reason he left the club was that he got a better offer from title chasing Ngezi Platinum Stars. “Nhivi has since agreed to join Ngezi Platinum Stars. He has since had his medical examination and everything was all clear. The team needed a striker following the departure of Terrence Dzvukamanja and Nhivi was identified as the player that can bring goals.” Tonderai Ndiraya’s men are pushing for the title and currently sit two points behind leaders FC Platinum. Ngezi Platinum have been the best goal scorers in the league so far with 32 goals, but the departure of Dvukamanja has left them needing another lethal finisher. Nhivi, who joins former Bulawayo Chiefs defender Polite Moyo as a mid-season arrival, has enjoyed good form for Caps United and has been scoring the goals. Caps United themselves have added Mitchel Katsvairo to their ranks and could be further boosted by the return of Dominic Chungwa who was off-loaded in South Africa. Chungwa is said to have held talks with Chitembwe with the view to rejoin the Green Machine. Caps have been struggling to score since the start of the second half of the season and failed to get a single goal in their last three matches against Harare City, Bulawayo Chiefs and FC Platinum after playing out goalless draws in all those matches. Chitembwe’s men are pushing to have a good second half of the season but sit 14 points behind FC Platinum and 12 adrift of Ngezi Platinum Stars. Abbas Amidu is also back in the country after a short stint in Egypt and could be another option for the Green Machine. With clubs running around to complete their transfer business before today’s deadline, its shaping up to be a season full of excitement and competition. At some point it looked like it will just be a two horse-race between the platinum miners but with Ngezi Platinum going on a four-match losing streak as well as FC Platinum going winless in their last three matches, opportunities seem to be opening up for the likes of Chicken Inn, Highlanders and possibly Caps United and Triangle
After so much transfer business and investment before the start of the season, Ngezi Platinum Stars are under pressure to win the league title. DeMbare who have done some good business on the market where they also clinched the signature of Brett Amidu, will be looking for a change of fortunes as they sit just three points above the relegation zone. They have also struggled for goals having scored just 17 goals from 20 matches. In Nkatha they have a proven goals scorer who will add value to their team.