SLICE Distributors (Private) Limited will roll out five more fast food outlets to push its total number to 17 nationwide by year end, NewsDay has learnt. BY TATIRA ZWINOIRA Currently, Slice Distributors has 12 outlets across the country consisting of mainly the Chicken Slice and Pizza Slice brands. In an interview last week with NewsDay company public relations manager Bernadette Mutoko said Slice Distributors recently renovated Speke and Mbuya Nehanda Chicken Slice and Pizza Slice outlet in the central business district in Harare and had identified sites where the five outlets would be built. “We are going to roll out new outlets before year end. I think there might be five outlets because we have got five sites that we have signed to work on, so I am sure by the end of year we should at least have five to make at least 17. I do not have figures (cost) at the moment,” she said. “It is quite a huge cost (setting up outlets and renovations) but what we do is that we look for funding from the banks because us doing it by ourselves is quite costly, however, with the help of our bankers which I am not privy to say their names they are helping.” She declined to give figures pertaining to the cost of setting up the five outlets and renovations. Competition in the fast food industry has stiffened since the entry of American brand KFC into the market back in 2014. American fast food company  Yum! Brands Inc,  which owns KFC, in February this year also introduced Pizza Hut.
The entry of Pizza Hut was followed by South Africa’s Muchachos which opened its doors nearly three months later in May. Slice Distributors is the second largest fast food franchise company in the country after Simbisa Brands Limited which has Chicken Inn, Pizza Inn, Creamy Inn, Baker’s Inn, Fish Inn, Nando’s, and Steers. This is on top of fast food brands such as Kelly’s Chicken, Chicken Village, Eat and Lick, Mambo, Papa Chino and Meat and Eat, among other fast food outlets. “Where ever we are, our market share is about 80%, whoever comes… take for example where we are here (Speke and Mbuya Nehanda), if there isn’t anyone around our market is about 80%, but if we are not around, then it is their (Simbisa Brands) market. It is about branch coverage because we are not yet in Mutare, Victoria Falls, Zvishavane, Bindura and all those places,” Mutoko said.