Triangle gaffer, Taurai Mangwiro was left a disappointed man yesterday after his team was brought down to earth with a home defeat against army side Black Rhinos in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played at Gibbo stadium yesterday. BY  KENNETH NYANGANI IN TRIANGLE
TRIANGLE . . . . . . . . .  .  0
BLACK RHINOS . . . . (0)1 Wonder Kapinda’s goal separated teams after he breached the home side’s defences in the 53rd minute with a powerful header. Prior to yesterday’s match, Triangle had lost three matches and yesterday they were subjected to another defeat at a time they were looking to make ground on the leading pack. Mangwiro admitted that his team were inferior to their opponents yesterday.. ‘’We took too much time to settle in the match and by the time we hit our stride they had already scored. It’s very disappointing to lose at home but it’s part of football. There are times when things just don’t go your way. We played second fiddle but we say tough luck,’’ he said. Rhinos coach, Hebert Maruwa, was pleased with his team’s show and the outcome in the end. ‘’I am proud of my boys we were playing well but were not scoring goals, I am quite happy with the fighting spirit, especially following the draws we experienced in the previous matches. This one was a tough game against a good team and I am glad we pulled it off.” Triangle could have taken the lead on 27 minutes, but striker Simba Makoni fluffed the chance from a close range. The visitors had  a good chance to draw first blood, but Wellington Taderera’s shot narrowly missed the target with home side goalkeeper ,Tapiwa Chilenga a well beaten man. Rhinos returned from the break with more determination and were duly rewarded when Kapinda scored from a free header. Rhinos defended well and Bruce Homora cleared from the line following a Kudzai Chigwida shot in the 82nd minute. Teams Triangle: T. Chilenga, D. Phiri, R. Mhlanga (D Chirimbamuriwo 55min), K. Chigwida, D. Dzvinyai,R.Kawondera, A. Chiwandire, P. Simbi, R.Madamombe, S. Makoni (A Murimba 61min) P. Bhamusi, N. Lameck Black Rhinos: A. Reyners, M.Mekiwa, F. Banda, S. Jimu, D. Mudadi, Homora, W. Kapinda, T. Jaravani M.Mambare, M. Vincent, W. Taderera, L. Chiunga