TWO first half goals from Guide Goddard and Obriel Chirinda powered Chicken Inn to victory, as they beat Bulawayo Chiefs in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Luveve Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELE
BULAWAYO CHIEFS…0
CHICKEN INN……. (2) 2 With the win, the Gamecocks dislodged city neighbours, Highlanders from the third spot, moving to 24 points before their weekend game against FC Platinum at the same venue on Sunday. Highlanders, who have 22 points, clash with Bulawayo City at Barbourfields today. Goddard scored with a powerful header off a Xolani Ndlovu corner-kick in the 11th minute, as Chicken Inn pressed Chiefs early on. Their second came in the 26th minute through the hard work of veteran midfielder, Clemence Matawu, who sent through Chirinda to dribble past goalkeeper, Kelvin Nyoni inside the box before easily pushing the ball into the back of the nets. It was quite a relief for coach, Joey Antipas after Chicken Inn’s last two matches had ended in draws. “It was a good result for us coming from two draws. “We had a good first half and lost it in the second half and Chiefs came at us all guns blazing but we managed to grind the result. “We are just a pressure group up there, it looks like its a two-horse race,” Antipas said. Chiefs had their fair share of chances in the second half, with substitutes, Farau Matare, Gracious Mleya and Chrispen Machisi, changing the game for them, but they could not get the desired goals. Moses Majika had an effort cleared off the line in the 51st minute and wasted another in the 69th minute, when he became too elaborate in front of goal. It was Chiefs’ fifth defeat of the season, leaving them on 12 points from 13 games with two wins and six draws. Coach Garthly Chipuka said they lost to an experienced team. “This is a game where one would say experience pays. “Chicken Inn got their chances and buried them, while our boys had the little brother mentality,” he  said. Teams Bulawayo Chiefs: K Nyoni, M Sibanda, M Mkolo, P Moyo, L Sithole, T Muzuva, C Makamba (F Matare 49′), A Musiyiwa (C Machisi 71′), B Manhire (G Mleya 58′), P Chikwende, M Majika Chicken Inn: E Chipezeze, P Bernard (B Nyahunzvi 49′), D Lunga, G Goddard, M Jackson, S Munawa, X Ndlovu (T Goredema 74′), I Mucheneka (W Kamudyariwa 59′), O Chirinda, C Matawu, O Tarumbwa