JOHN Zhuwawu scored a goal in each half, as Caps United finally remembered how to win in a rather dull affair against ZPC Kariba  at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. By Munyaradzi Madzokere
Caps United . . . . (1) 3
ZPC Kariba . . . . . (0) 0 Denver Mukamba chipped in with the other goal from the penalty spot to ensure the Harare giants bagged their first set of maximum points in five matches. Caps United had not won a league match since the 4-3 away triumph at Nichrut last month. On the other hand, the Green Machine ended ZPC Kariba’s eight-match unbeaten run. “It’s the first match that we have scored three goals at home, so I am happy. “I am also happy that this is the second match in a row that we have not conceded a goal,” coach, Lloyd Chitembwe said after the game. “It’s good for us, it’s good for confidence, it’s good for the spirit within the group and this is what we are supposed to do. Play and win games.” Caps United took the lead against the run of play in the 25th minute, with Zhuwawu showing a poacher’s instinct to poke home a Simba Nhivi cross. The hosts looked the hungrier of the two teams and created chances for Kudzai Nyamupfukudza and Milton Ncube before the break. Moses Demera had the first real chance in the second half after the half-hour mark, but his connection was weak and Prosper Chigumba easily gathered. Halftime substitute, Mukamba then doubled the scores from the penalty spot halfway through the second half from time. Sylvester Appiah needlessly pulled down Zhuwawu in the box and the referee had no choice but to award a spot kick. Controversially, referee Philani Ncube booked the wrong man, showing a yellow card to Munyaradzi Munyanduri for the incident instead. Blessing Nyamuzihwa came closest to pulling a goal back for the visitors, but his chipped shot from an acute angle came off the cross bar in the 73rd minute.
Zhuwawu ended the match as a contest 12 minutes from the final whistle, rounding off his marker and neatly placing the ball beyond the reach of Takabva Mawaya.
The visitors’ coach, Godfrey Tamurepi was disappointed by the team’s performance. “This is one game I would like to quickly forget because we have played better opposition than Caps United and did well. Unfortunately today our guys never came to the party,” he said. Teams Caps United: P. Chigumba, J. Jangano, V. Musarurwa, C. Munzambwa, G. Goriyati, D. Mukandi, K. Nyamupfukudza, J.  Ngodzo, M. Ncube, J. Zhuwawu (B. Muzondiwa 79′), S. Nhivi (P. Moyo 60′) ZPC Kariba: T. Mawaya, B. Zuberi, M. Kunyarimwe(B. Nyamuzihwa 72′), S. Appiah, I. Nekati, T. Munyanduri, C. Muleya, P. Tafirenyika, S. Makawa( M. Demera42′), T. Nyamandwe, T. Chamboko