Caps United side again failed to end their awful Maglas record when they were held to a draw by a spirited Shabanie Mine at Maglas stadium yesterday. BY TERRY MADYAUTA
SHABANIE MINE . . . . . (1) 1
CAPS UNITED . . . . . . . . (0) 1 Having last won at Maglas Stadium in 2006, Caps needed to break that barren run, more importantly to recover from last week’s defeat to Chicken Inn, but again they fell short. Shabanie Mine showed hunger and were rewarded through skipper Trevor Ajana, who opened his account of the season for the miners. Following a brilliant exchange of passes that involved, Tatenda Makuwe and Kibaki Dlamini, the former whipped in a delightful cross, which Caps goal minder Chris Mverechena, failed to deal with for Ajana to capitalise. The Green Machine improved  after the interval and grabbed their equaliser in the 70th minute. Joel Ngodzo and  Milton Ncube combined well to set up John Zhuwawu, who calmly headed the ball past diving Shabanie goalie, Biggie Temera. Moments later, Simba Nhivi was picked by Ngodzo in the box but his shot from close-range was tame. Nhivi also failed to connect to a cross from Valentine Musarurwa with his left footed shot going over bar, while Denver Mukumba’s powerful volley on the 85th minute missed the target by a few inches. Shabanie Mine coach, Takesure Chiragwi showered praises on his  charges for a brave performance. “We cannot ask for more from the discipline and brave performance exhibited by these boys today. “We got a point though we expected a win but as a coach, I am impressed with way the boys played. “I am seeing a lot of improvements from the team and that keeps us going,” he said. On the other hand, Caps coach Lyold Chitembwe was disappointed with the result. “We controlled the game and I thought it was destined for us but at the end we got one  point. That’s football, maybe we will win the next game,” he said. “They gave us a good run but I thought we had a lot of chances to win the game especially in the final quarter of the game but we failed to score. Match results Shabanie Mine 1-1 Caps United Dynamos 1-2 Harare City Triangle United 2-0 Bulawayo Chiefs Mutare City Rovers 1-1 Black Rhinos Highlanders 1-2 ZPC Kariba Teams: Shabanie: B Temera, L Manyande, N Mpofu, W Kahuni, A Maliselo, T Chigede, J Nyabinde, T Ajana( M Murimi, 67), T Makuwe( T Mupumhu 84′), K Dlamini, D Temwanjira Caps: C Mverechena, M Ncube, V Musarurwa, D Dauda, J Jangano, K Kamhapa( D Mukandi, 74′), D Mukamba, S Nhivi, J  Ngodzo, J Zhuwawu, B Muzondiwa.