MISS Tourism Zimbabwe national licence holder Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda yesterday said the race for the new national beauty queen will begin in earnest this weekend as Matabeleland North seeks its representative at a pageant set to be held at  Victoria Falls. BY SINDISO DUBE The national finals are scheduled for Bulawayo in September this year. Mpofu-Sibanda said the Matabeleland North race was special as it will offer tourists in the resort town an opportunity to attend the beauty contest at the Elephant Hills Hotel. “Matabeleland will get the ball rolling this weekend and other provinces will follow. We expect a good show in the resort town. Victoria Falls is Zimbabwe’s window to the world,” she said. “Not only locals will experience and see the beauty in the province, but foreign tourists will also have a chance to see what Zimbabwean girls are made of. This year we expect a good show with a difference since we have been given the licence to host the national showdown in Bulawayo.” Contestants at the pageant have been drawn from Victoria Falls, Lupane, Binga, Cross Dete, Hwange and other areas in Matabeleland North. A bevy of 20 beautiful girls will battle it out on the ramp with the three finalists winning the ticket to represent their province in the national finals. Meanwhile, the Matabeleland North licence holder and pageant organiser, Shauntel Nkomo told NewsDay Life & Style that all was set for the show on Saturday. “We expect nothing but fire from the girls. The girls we selected are passionate about modelling and this coming Saturday is their day to shine, enjoy and show us what they are made of,” she said. “They should take this opportunity to be exemplary to the next person and also to the communities they hail from, good behaviour is what we are calling for.” The outgoing queen, Morgan, was crowned Miss Nust in 2015 before winning the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe in November 2016. She represented the country in the Miss Tourism International pageant in 2017 in Malaysia and made it into the top 10.