Salvation is enjoyed because of the revelation of Christ in the heart of the believer. Peace, confidence and assurance pour out of the revelation of Christ. By Erasmus Makarimayi Victorious Christian living calls for accurate and precise knowledge of the One who lives in you. Without this knowledge believers might live as servants yet they’re sons and daughters of God. The revelation of Christ is the revelation of the believer. Scripture makes it clear that the life we live is the life of Christ. Understanding the life of Christ brings us to an understanding of the life of a believer. Christ lives in us expressing Himself through us. When we know Him we then know ourselves. Christianity or the Christian Faith functions on the revelation of Christ or the knowledge of the truth. It’s the truth that makes us free have peace of mind. Jesus Christ is this truth. He tells us in John 14:6, “Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.” Let’s develop and construct this. Before salvation we’re dead. Life comes through and from Christ. In sin, we were in a state of death. In Christ we’re alive. Ephesians 2:1 (Amplified Bible) clarifies, “AND YOU [He made alive], when you were dead (slain) by [your] trespasses and sins.” We’re saved from death to life and that life is the life of Christ. Further, Galatians 2:20 teaches, “I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.” Our life is the life of Christ by the faith of Christ. We, therefore, don’t take matters into our own hands, we’re totally surrendered to Him. The Bible records an interesting story of the resurrection of Jesus in Luke 24. Cleopas and another unnamed disciple are going from Jerusalem to Emmaus discussing the recent death of Jesus. Jesus catches up with them. Luke 24:17-19 reads, “[17] And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? [18] And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? [19] And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:” They were His disciples, having walked with Him much of His earthly ministry. Jesus wasn’t impressed that they still didn’t have the revelation of Christ. Please remember that earlier on, Peter had known who Jesus was by inspiration from God. Matthew 16:16-17 record, “[16] And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. [17] And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.” So Jesus is not known through human understanding but by divine revelation. We live beyond the sensory realm. Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus’ issue with Cleopas was that after all of this they still new Him at human level as the  Man of Nazareth and a prophet. He called them fools. Luke 24:25-26 read, “[25] Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: [26] Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?” The biblical prophets were pointing to Christ. He had told them many times before that He was going to die and rise again but they didn’t comprehend it. Jesus died and rose entering into glory and the glorified Christ is in you. His life is the life of the believer.  A believer is in Christ. As a minister of the new covenant/the Grace of God, this is something that I always repeat and emphasise. 2 Corinthians 5:17 should be one of your valued references. It reads, “Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.” Believers are a new creation in Christ not in natural ancestry. The life of a believer is not passed through generations but derived from Christ where it exists and subsists. Who is Jesus to you? Is He the Son of a carpenter from Nazareth or one of the prophets? Without knowing Him you cannot know yourself. Wrong knowledge of Him results in wrong knowledge of yourself. It’s identity crisis. We have the revelation of the resurrected Christ. Apostle Paul directs us in 2 Corinthians 5:16, Amplified, “Consequently, from now on we estimate and regard no one from a [purely] human point of view [in terms of natural standards of value]. No, even though we once did estimate Christ from a human viewpoint and as a man, yet now [we have such knowledge of Him that] we know Him no longer [in terms of the flesh]. In closing, take note of the words of Jesus in John 8:32, “And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.” Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. You’re going somewhere. All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated. l All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated.
Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org
Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632