Tapiwa Khumbuyani inspired Chapungu to only their second win of the season so far with victory over Shabanie at Maglas stadium yesterday. BY TERRY MADYAUTA
SHABANIE MINE . . . . . . . . .  0
CHAPUNGU . . . . . . . . . . . .(0)1 The veteran has often been frozen out at Chapungu this season but yesterday he was the hero after he planted a header in the second-half to give the airmen the impetus.
Kumbuyani was at the end of a Philip Marufu cross, after the latter exchanged passes with Allen Tavarwisa. The win thrust Shabanie coach Takesure Chiragwi into more trouble with his club, having won just one match so far this season and sit above bottom side Mutare City Rovers.
Chiragwi was close to tears, as he conducted his post match interview, where he pledged to turn the fortunes of the team around. “It’s part of football. We had a balanced game, but failed to score. We had a number of chances, but the strikers failed to bury them.  It’s a long marathon, there is still a long way to go and I hope will start winning. But we need to start collecting maximum points and have to learn to grind results,” he said. Chapungu coach Rodwell Dlakama was in cloud nine after recording his first victory in charge the air force side. “It’s all about building the teams confidence and at this stage, collecting maximum points is a bonus,” he said. “In football, you can never be satisfied but when as start getting points its good for us. Our previous results were not good, but we have done well of late and we hope to continue as we face log leaders Ngezi on Wednesday. I am still getting used to some of the players who are new here but I hope we continue to grind results and survive relegation,” he said. Though Shabanie dominated the early exchanges, they failed to make their dominance count. On the 16-minute mark, Shabanie’s Romeo Pakamisa missed a sitter when he was picked unmarked in the box by Carlos Rusere, but the former’s effort went wide with goalie Talbert Shumba at his mercy. Pakamisa was given his first start with Temwanjira on the bench, but he failed to justify his inclusion. The airmen were under pressure from Shabanie, but they absorbed it and got goal scoring opportunities in the last few minutes of the first period. In the 42nd minute, Marufu found space a few yards outside the box and unleashed a shot that missed the target by inches. Shabanie Mine were almost punished for a lapse in concentration when Allen Tavarwisa shrugged himself past two defenders, but he was denied by the goalkeeper.