Highlanders lost ground on the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League leaders when they drew with Caps United in a match played at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELE
HIGHLANDERS . . . . . . 0
CAPS UNITED . . . . . . .  0 A draw was probably the fairest result in this otherwise uninspiring clash between two of the country’s biggest teams. It was a second successive draw for Highlanders after they were held by Yadah last weekend in Harare and on the other hand Caps United have gone four matches without a win. The 2016 champions last won in April when they beat Nichrut at Ascot and they are now on 17 points after playing 12 matches. Highlanders were unconvincing in front of their home crowd, plucking a point to move to 22 points. The hosts could have scored in the 19th minute, but a header by Ozias Zibande from an Adrian Silla cross was well dealt with by Caps United goalkeeper, Prosper Chigumba.
Caps United striker, Simba Nhivi’s effort went way off target when he had only the goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda to beat six minutes before the break. There were some anxious moments for Highlanders in the first half optional time following fancy footwork by Caps midfielder, Joel Ngodzo, before he pushed the ball to Valentine Musarurwa, who in turn found Milton Ncube, but his effort from close range was saved by an alert Sibanda. Ngodzo and Nyampfukudza had a field day in the centre, but Caps United failed to capitalise on that. One Highlanders counter-attack could have put them ahead in the 54th minute with a solo run by right back McClive Phiri, who sent in a cross and Zibande’s header missed the target.
Highlanders coach, Madinda Ndlovu, was not available for the post-match interviews. Despite the draw, Caps United mentor Lloyd Chitembwe was impressed by his boys. “It was a very good game. Both teams gave it their all. It was one of those games that had so much in it reaching technical brilliance, tactical acumen, physical and mental application. We anticipated that we were not going to have so many chances because Highlanders have been doing well, but I am satisfied with the performance and the application by the boys. Today they really matched the expectations in terms of desire. Overall, I am impressed,” he said Teams Highlanders: A Sibanda, M Phiri, H Moyo, C Siamalonga, P Muduhwa, B Musaka, G Makaruse (N Sianchali 68′), B Banda, O Zibande, A Silla, G Nyoni
Caps United: P Chigumba, J Jangano, V Musarurwa, C Munzabwa, G Goriyati, D Mukandi, K Nyampfukudza, J Ngodzo, M Ncube (B Muzondiwa 85′), J Zhuwawu (W Mutasa 99+2′), S Nhivi