BULAWAYO CITY… .. .. … (2) 2
ZPC KARIBA  . . . . .. . . . . . . (0) 1 BULAWAYO City became the third team to be relegated from the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League despite picking their third win on the trot over ZPC Kariba at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELE City needed to win their game, which they spectacularly did, but also needed relegation rivals Chapungu and Nichrut to drop points in their respective matches. While Nichrut were held to a draw, Chapungu romped to a massive victory against Highlanders to effectively condemn Bulawayo City to the unfashionable Division One. With three games left before the end of the season, City, who are on 25 points, can only reach a maximum 34 points, which is enough to only leapfrog Nichrut (33 points), assuming that the Shurugwi-based team lose all their remaining matches. Bulawayo City joins Shabanie Mine and Mutare City Rovers, who are already relegated. Quick goals by Sipho Ndlovu on the 42nd minute and another by Trevor Ndlovu three minutes later gave City their third win on the bounce, but it was a case of too good a little too late for them, as they go down with a whimper. ZPC Kariba scored their goal through a beauty by Dexter Phiri from a free-kick on the 58th minute. The Kariba-based side that looked like they were safe a few weeks ago, have now been dragged into the relegation dogfight after this defeat. At 41 points, they are far from being safe after almost all the teams below them picked maximum points in this midweek round of fixtures.
ZPC Kariba only picked themselves up in the second half following a below par and negative first half where they barely fashioned any chance. Teams Bulawayo City: K Nyoni, H Ncube, Z Ngodzo, Z Sibanda (B Phiri, 55′), C Ncube, R Pavari, S Ndlovu, T Ndlovu (N Ndlovu, 51′), T Banda, L Nyathi (T Tavengwa, 68′), T January ZPC Kariba: T Mawaya, T Ranthokoane, D Phiri, S Appiah (B Matukure, 34′), I Nekati, T Munyanduri, G Mangani (M Demera, 46′), B Zuberi, T Nyamandwe, D Temwanjira, T Chamboko (S Makawa, 78′)